In fact, she wasn't producing any sound at all now. The last thing she'd said was: 'Can't you stop talking, not even for a second?'
The various exhibitions on offer that first summer, from the eighth and last Impressionist exhibition held in May through to the Salon des Indépendants in August, gave him an ideal opportunity to confront a jangling cacophony of contemporary styles.
There is no such thing as foreshadowing.
Is that realistic?'
In his letters he was insistent about communicating such touches of background detail, and at some level Van Gogh clearly expected his viewers to absorb them too.
When I'd told my wife that, she'd started crying.
The régime for inmates -- which involved baths, exercise in the gardens and regular meals, although he spurned the insipid diet -- was regulated by bells.
'Do you make that yourself?' she asked, pointing to the vegetable quiche.
He was well aware of the mess other art students got themselves into trying to paint before they could draw securely.
(Medical opinion remains divided about the precise nature of Van Gogh's illness -- it seems probable that it was a form of temporal lobe epilepsy, complicated by a bipolar affective disorder -- although there is little doubt that his alcohol consumption and poor diet exacerbated his condition.)
'Why the prettiest answer?' she asked, looking at me like she was inspecting a side of beef.
'For one dollar you get a third one,' the waiter said.
"On the night of 23-24 December, following a drunken argument, Van Gogh suffered some sort of mental breakdown
In the country he had tended to seek out models who had known the harsh realities of work -- servants, agricultural workers and weavers -- and, similarly, he sought his models in the city among prostitutes and paupers.
She laughed derisively.
Van Gogh's portrait of the colour merchant Julien Tanguy (1824-1894), a loyal supporter of the artists of 'le petit boulevard', belongs within this phase of intense personal identification with Japanese art (ill. 54).
To the music on the Top 40 station, because we had that playing all night.
What was the point of that?'
Born in 1853 in Zundert, Van Gogh grew up in the Brabant countryside.
But Vincent defended himself by comparing what he was attempting with Delacroix's treatment of landscape: 'I am well aware that the studies in the last package, drawn with those great sinuous lines, were not what they need to be but I urge you to believe that in landscape there will be a continuing effort to mass things by means of a drawing style which tries to express the tangling of the masses.'
I still didn't know why they'd taken them off, but I'd stopped commenting on it.
One evening, after she'd come in a bit later than usual- it had been a very quiet evening - I asked: 'Could I go into therapy with you?'
 zei ik, 'neem mee, dansen helpt niet tegen de honger.'"
"Oddly enough, it was not the example of his French peers that prompted Van Gogh to make the most radical stylistic departures from his earlier Dutch work
Again I thought about the story I could write about Rebecca. It would be a beautiful story, because through her I could say everything I still had to say.
'When could I give it you?
I wasn't too pleased about that, about her eating there, because it made a mess and I'd have to clean it all up.
He seems to have urged Van Gogh to turn his attention instead to Arles's historic sites.
"And although the painting stands alone, in the artist's mind it had a pendant, Gauguin's chair (ill. 123)
Paralysing though the attacks were while they lasted, in the interludes between them Van Gogh's thinking was lucid, and he was able to work well.
Or a second-hand clothing shop - is that what you people want?
He was fascinated by the map-like relationship between the constellations and cast his imagination forward to the possible journey to be made, beyond the grave, to their starry realm.
'All right, so don't insult me.'
What would happen if we made that girl get cancer?
For the first time, I actually looked at her hands.
I thought it came naturally.
When I came back that night, I found a pair of her panties behind my couch.
Indeed, it is still uncertain whether Van Gogh's suicide towards the end of July was his premeditated closure on a life of increasing pain or a cry for help.
(His sister-in-law Jo took delight in contemplating this cool glade when she came upon the painting at the Salon des Indépendants the following year.)
It's not easy getting used to snack bars when you're accustomed to eating in the finest restaurants.
'Oh, everyone says so.'
My wife and I had been to Lisbon together once.
The main subject that preoccupied him in early 1889 was ideally suited to restoring his equilibrium: a portrait of a woman rocking a cradle.
They're often very minor illusions, but those minor illusions can be so lovely.
Some of them I saw going downhill from week to week.
But he was now beset by a new fear, of the unpredictable but inevitable recurrence of his illness.
And of popping pimples.
"In this instance, as he explained to Theo, he felt the dark masses of the trees (which occupy two thirds of the canvas area) required even more solid impasto in the foreground
Maybe I should have passed out scratch-off lottery tickets.
'I haven't been on TV for a long time.'
'Last year.
'She also made a sculpture of the weatherman.'
 verscheidene mensen in mijn omgeving had ik zien sterven, sommigen snel, anderen langzaam, maar mijn eigen dood stond nog niet op het programma, hoewel mijn eigen vrouw me meerdere malen erop had gewezen dat dat kortzichtig was."
"These stark dissimilarities were mirrored in their different tastes in art
He put away his tape recorder and his microphone and smoked another cigarette.
That is, I had a lot to say, but it didn't come out right.
When Signac left for the south of France at the end of May, Van Gogh continued to exploit this north-western edge of the city, which could be easily reached on foot from Montmartre, and to develop the ideas they must have discussed.
I discovered then that happiness wasn't some idea that could only exist in the past, or in a future that I'd furnished sloppily while waiting for customers in the all-night deli.
Section One Dutch Roots and Intellectual Formation 1853-1885
We drank another bottle of Gavi de Gavi.
I looked at her, thinking I'd misunderstood her.
One of the first to be painted in this dynamic manner -- an effective marriage of his graphic mark-making and his application of colour -- was of Irises (ill. 133), which must have been in bloom at the time of his arrival.
As in several of his riverside scenes, Van Gogh applied the paint in streaking parallel strokes, a useful device for conveying the ripples of the water.
Such a regulated, concentrated way of living was in a sense ideally conducive to work.
Van Gogh's colour choices here seem to be governed by a concern for decorative unity: the predominant yellow/blue contrast of the lower flowers and vase carries over into the arbitrary colours used for the table top, while the blue, orange, red and white contrasts that dominate the upper portion of the variegated summer bouquet spill over into the background.
Rebecca thought about that.
'With this message I would like to let you know that I am not in the habit of endorsing novels by third parties.
Seeing the grouping of works assembled to pay homage to Van Gogh at the Salon des Indépendants of 1891, Octave Mirbeau (1848-1917) was profoundly moved: 'Here I feel myself in the presence of somebody loftier, more masterly, a person who disturbs me, moves me, commands attention.
I replied: 'Because I'm an ant.'
'I didn't know you could laugh so hard with someone who works in an all-night deli.'
I would recommend that you send the book to as many publishers as possible.
"That I sell my own wardrobe and then call up all the women I've ever bought clothes for and say: ""You know that dress I bought for you last Christmas? Well, I need it back."
Zaza had already been taken, and so had, Zouzou, but it needed to have that sound to it.
As if there was something I had to make up for.
However, Vincent warned his brother that his way of painting, particularly his palette of deep browns and earth colours, would be out of step with the bright prismatic hues that had been introduced by the Impressionists.
Because her place was always full of smoke.
We'd baked enough to feed an orphanage.
On learning in September 1889 that his brother's wife was expecting a child, Van Gogh's emotions seem to have been mixed.
It's hard to find something to say when you're surrounded by stuffed dinosaurs, a few sharks and a cocktail of the month.
'Do you always do that?'
The more time I spent with Rebecca, though, the more I got the feeling that Death would come and touch me soon.
Existential loneliness is a lot of hooey, of course. But not the smell, that really exists.
It explores the works in the context of Van Gogh's short but brilliant career in which frequent spells of isolation did not preclude lively engagement with artistic peers and the ideas of his time.
Did you have to practise that?
How am I going to find that out?'
'No, to make sculptures in general.'
In Auvers Van Gogh certainly experienced a renewal of his old energy: the two months there saw him producing on average a painting a day.
Maybe it was only my imagination, but I thought I saw tears in her eyes.
Yet here Van Gogh wanted to convey a wholly different mood, a sense of the peacefulness his new abode brought him, a salutary refuge from the nighthawk existence that he had known hitherto.
Had I heard her correctly?
That sounded good to me.
"Vase with gladioli and autumn asters (ill. 36), with its loose pairing of complementaries -- reds and pinks with greens, yellows with blues -- adopts a significantly brighter range of colours than any of his Dutch still lifes
I'm at St Ambroeus'.
"As in the case of the sunflowers and oleanders, he seems to have responded as much to the noble structure of the flowers as to their colour and texture
"Of course I grant you permission to print my story ""Shoe Polish"" in your university magazine."
Because I'd decided that's what we really were, my wife-to-be and I. Tourists.
There was another animal in there with them that looked a lot like a giant turtle.
In Paris, an intensely religious phase increasingly distracted him from his commercial work, which led to an ignominious dismissal from Goupil's in 1876.
This mattered especially with Theo, to whom he was so indebted.
It smacked of the Neo-Impressionists, whose work he had come to despise.
He believed that in the field of modern portraiture he could play a role similar to that of Balzac and Flaubert, the realist novelists who had prepared the ground for Zola and Maupassant.
I poured myself a glass of calvados, which, after a moment's hesitation, I tossed down the sink.
When I started dreaming about the price of fishcakes, of salmon salad, of the vegetable quiche and the satay, I realised it was time my life took a different turn.
'Why don't you just explain it the way it is?'
And she makes sculptures of people she's seen on television.
I had shimmied up a tree and now I was afraid to climb down. High amid the branches I looked at other people and occasionally I warmed something up.
Although the method makes an appearance in Van Gogh's 1887 Paris work, he did not attempt to apply it systematically.
The bookkeeper worked on imperturbably.
'They're definitely big,' I said, and ordered the cocktail of the month. I decided I'd leave as soon as I'd finished it.
He also exaggerated the colours and forms: 'an immense lemon disk for the sun.
I wanted to live, but I didn't know how.
'What's good here?'
'Dear Professor,' I wrote, 'how are you?
But the family had important connections with the art trade too.
Silence reminds me so much of death.
I had lost track of my financial situation.
Except a story.
Maybe it was like acting in front of a movie camera with no film in it.
'Every man,' she had said, 'should see that movie.'
Belinda Thomson has published extensively within the fields of Impressionism and Post-Impressionism.
Only after I'd hung up did I realise that, in all the years I'd lived in New York, I had never been to the Museum of Natural History.
And so we baked cookies.
I'd attracted quite a few loonies in my life.
Now she was smiling.
'I want to eat alone tonight,' she said.
He was no timid neophyte, ready to fit in with fashionable modes of thinking. He was not afraid to be out of step.
'One other thing,' I said.
The arrangements are such that some of the flowers have yet to come out, the petals still bright and the calyx dark in tone, while others are decidedly past their best, beginning to curl up around the edges.
Both compositions feature a particular 'cup with orange and blue patterns' and a 'blue barbotine or majolica' jug, decorative pieces that Van Gogh presumably picked up locally.
It wasn't that she was small, she was actually taller than me, but the first thing I thought of when I saw her was a troll.
" In a second orchard view looking towards Arles (ill. 132), he established a dramatic screen of vertical poplars in the foreground, their trunks cut off at top and bottom by the canvas edge
'And did they beat you?
Tell that to your salespeople.'
Anyone who's had something going with seven men at the same time must like gambling, right?'
At least, not yet.
The result has more to do with the intense tones found in tin-glazed pottery than with nature (ill. 86).
If I ever get around to writing my memoirs The Story of My Cowardice would be a nice title.
That women forget your name, you can learn to live with that, as long as waiters remember it.
Unconsciously at first, then with increasing premeditation, Van Gogh concentrated his attention on trees, seeing in them a suitable key with which to unlock the essential character of Provence.
You don't even bother to slash your wrists, you just lie there, and every once in a while you add a little water to keep from cooling off.
'I believe so, yes,' she said.
I'd hand them out after the main course.
'Let me call you back, Robert.'
In the culminating version of the theme, the subtle tonal division between table and wall echoes -- and was perhaps inspired by -- the two-toned Provençal pottery vase in which the heavy flowers are placed.
He came to this restaurant almost every day.
When your back's to the wall, the best thing is to go full speed ahead.
 zei ik, 'koop je eigen scheermesjes."
Most of the speakers were boring, but a psychiatrist from Rome had said something interesting.
Van Gogh's ability to suggest ideas of burgeoning promise, plenitude and decay within this simple unified theme is one reason for the sunflower compositions' singular force.
I wrapped up a few broken fishcakes and some pieces of quiche, and added a couple of bags of crisps.
'I haven't unwrapped it yet, it's still beside the fireplace.
Copying was also a pretext for exploring tender human emotions.
He was soon given permission to explore beyond the immediate environs of the clinic.
The day two chimney sweeps swept my chimney in vain and I vowed to myself never to attend another translation session, The Empty Vessel came into my life.
At the centre he placed an abandoned, desolate woman watched over by a strange hooded figure in black, while two stooping women in Breton costume make a show of working.
I called back right away.
His facility with languages and the experience of living abroad widened both his intellectual horizons and his social contacts.
She shook her head.
Another factor was the increasingly active role Theo was now playing, on behalf of Goupil's, in promoting modern art and seeking out representatives of the new movement.
No,' she said. 'I've had a few abortions.
The house where my wife lived when we met was always smoky too.
Van Gogh sensibly took his time to look around him and come to terms with his new surroundings before launching into new subjects.
There for a time he had had his first proper studio in a converted outhouse, which projected into the garden.
"His immediate outlook faced east and encompassed a walled field
I reflected on the chimney sweeps again, and on the fact that becoming a weatherman could very well constitute the salvation I was looking for.
When he went bankrupt for the third time, he wrote to me: I hope this letter reaches you before my note does.
Auvers was a short train ride from Paris, but deep in the country.
Over the long term The potato eaters marked a turning-point in Van Gogh's career.
He led me to a little room beside the kitchen.
With a girlfriend of hers, a psychiatrist in training.
I felt that life really was a navel, a bad one perhaps, a boring navel, maybe even one of those detective navels where you know who did it by the time you get to page ten, but a navel nonetheless.
And I thought about my Sidney Brochstein cycle.
I already said that.'
Whether salvation existed at all was very much the question, but if it did it seemed to me not unlikely that it was to be found in a package with lots of foreign stamps on it, and the stubs of customs forms.
"The former, painted heavily in dark monochrome tones, seems to pay homage to the sturdy footwear that had carried him on his long walks through the Low Countries
Like an artist preparing a major composition for exhibition at the annual Paris Salon, he hired models to sit for him, at some cost, selecting the local De Groot family on the basis of their grossly coarse features.
She suggested we do something practical.
'But you're saying you received them in a clean house?'
Many reasons can be proposed to explain the phenomenon of Van Gogh's global popularity, but essentially it must come down to the immediately rewarding relationship that the person looking has with his work.
'Oh,' I said, 'about my work.
Certainly he seems henceforth to have abandoned the idea of tackling further elaborate multi-figure compositions and to have set his sights on more manageable goals.
 zei ik lachend."
Consulting a floor plan, though, I finally found it.
And so the lessons he gives are both his salvation and his downfall.
Only years later did I realise that maybe there wasn't any man after her that evening, that maybe she was just a little confused.
'A new novel? I can't wait that long. A hundred and thirty-seven guilders and fifty-four cents, you can't even buy dessert here for that.'
Halfway through my cocktail- which was absolutely disgusting- a woman came into the café carrying a plastic bag.
>From September to December 1883 he moved back to the countryside.
The police picked him up and took him to a hospital.
'Not realistic?'
Van Gogh's earliest drawings show him laboriously working through the recommended exercises, determined to master the mysteries of perspective.
If not tomorrow, then the day after.
 This sensitivity to the nuances of grey was something he had learned from Mauve, and it would later be translated into an ability to differentiate the nuances of much brighter hues.
He would never again expend so much trouble on a single work.
Van Gogh acknowledged that both compositions were 'exaggerations from the point of view of arrangement, their lines are warped as in old wood.'
The season of receiving presents was over, thankfully.
This was to be Van Gogh's last ambitious figure painting, executed on another double square canvas, this time turned vertically.
The painting is orchestrated around bright blue/yellow and green/orange contrasts, and this is the first canvas in which he dared to paint the southern sky, using intense turquoise blue applied in an unbroken flat block behind the intricate structure of the wooden drawbridge.
The euphoria of the manipulative writer may be even shorterlived than that of the erotomaniac.
People wanted to read about fecundity.
Socially, too, Montmartre marked the raw junction between urban and rural life.
 zei Rebecca."
My editor, Frederik van der Kamp, had called me and said: 'Robert, this Sidney Brochstein cycle of yours is depraved.'
Using the cane hedge to limit the foreground, he painted an oblique view towards the Alpilles incorporating the same poor cottages that had featured in his 1888 harvest scene.
The fact that his handling is noticeably lighter and more airy in this canvas was deliberate, a response to certain criticisms Theo had made.
The village of Les Saintes-Maries-de-la-Mer was famed as a site of Catholic pilgrimage, the legendary landing place of Mary Magdalen, Mary Jacobe and Mary Salome, accompanied by their servant Sarah (hence its importance for the Romany community).
Although physically isolated, Van Gogh was happily conscious of, and conscientious about, playing a part in a bigger story, one in which Impressionism might come to be considered as important a historical shift as the Renaissance had been.
The Japanese manager greeted me from behind the counter.
But the idea involved difficulties of many kinds.
And he had been doing so well.
He also grouped certain canvases to decorate Gauguin's room, categorising them so as to form a kind of sequence: two subjects inspired by what he called the 'poets' garden' (ill. 90, 91), a starry night (ill. 111), a vineyard (ill. 100), a furrowed field (ill. 104) and a view of the street (ill. 118).
The news doesn't interest me at all, but I stay awake for you.'
Later, when she was getting ready to leave, I said: 'I'm actually a juvenile delinquent myself.'
And together we stared at what was left of the salmon salad.
Indeed, it was not until he had spent over a year in Paris that one could say he was working in a loosely impressionistic manner.
I made the occasional attempt to enter a café, a movie theatre, the home of an acquaintance, but it almost never got beyond an attempt.
The way he rationalised this practice of creative copying -- translating black-and-white graphic works into colourful oils -- was as a relaxation similar to that experienced by a composer who, tired of racking his brain for new musical ideas, turns instead to playing and reinterpreting another musician's work.
'Do you want me to call the police?' I asked.
She didn't smoke as far as I knew, but my wife-to-be always smelled of cigarettes and parties.
'If they want to eat it here,' he'd said, 'let them eat it here.
At other moments I had always felt a certain satisfaction in looking at the spines, but now it was as though I'd found the physical remains of a long-distant affair.
So it will be my own fault if I don't succeed.
But it was in reality an unromantic and recriminatory semblance of family life, which Van Gogh temporarily adopted and then, a year later, abandoned.
It was with his mind full of Delacroix that he made a special trip to Amsterdam and spent long hours in the newly opened Rijsksmuseum, absorbing the lessons of Rembrandt and Frans Hals, analysing their techniques and above all their use of colour.
Y our silence speaks volumes.
Then I remembered the piece of cardboard in my inside pocket.
The sky greenish yellow with pink clouds.
For a time Boch thus played a part in Van Gogh's dream of an art that set out to reach the common man, and of a peripatetic artistic cooperative with branches to north and south.
She was a tourist in my all-night deli, and I was a tourist in her student flat, although of course I was also a tourist in my own deli.
She should have worn her hair up.
Attending the translation sessions you led was a great inspiration to me.
It was the last interview I'd given.
When it gets scorched and dusty, it does not lose its beauty, for then the landscape gets tones of gold of various tints, green-gold, yellow-gold, pink-gold, and in the same way bronze, copper, in short starting from citron yellow all the way to a dull, dark yellow colour like a heap of threshed corn, for instance.
'How could you get by without a chauffeur?'
And a couple of smaller ones.
'Oh,' Rebecca said, 'I've never met a Frenchman like that.'
One of his earliest studies was of The Langlois bridge (ill. 72), a subject he initially tackled on a modest scale with the aid of his perspective frame.
 Another motivation for making these faithful observations of the olive harvest was his ongoing dispute with Gauguin and Bernard, both of whom had been allowing their imaginations to run wild and painting scenes of Christ in the garden of olives, probably, in Bernard's case, without ever having seen an olive tree!
I'd seen with my own eyes that the people to whom he catered loved Capano like their own son.
Life itself as a three-week safari to Kenya.
I sat down in a corner where I had a view of fish behind glass.
'Where are you two going?' I asked.
In these circumstances, he felt the need to work all the more intensely, comparing himself to a coalminer threatened at any moment with a pit accident that might result in injury or death.
In September, he confessed in a letter to an English friend from Antwerp that after six months in Paris he was not yet of the Impressionist 'club', and that his own developing theory about colour was somewhat different from theirs .
"His stated preference for sitters from the 'common class' persisted
You couldn't really call it having a conversation.
I find it odd that I saw it like that through the iron bars of a cell.'
 ook hij had de moed of onvoorzichtigheid gehad de banden met familie en bestaande conventies te verbreken en ook hij stelde zijn leven in dienst van de kunst."
A cold coming on, or one that was just going away.
That confidence is a trap, but by the time you realise that it's too late.
I had to repeat my name a few times.
A superfluous gesture, for there was nothing left to stir.
Yet he could scarcely have foreseen the actual outcome.
A year after he and Mauve had observed fisherfolk at Scheveningen, a favourite haunt of the Hague School, Van Gogh was painting his own Scheveningen fisherman on the beach (ill. 8).
And acquaintance wasn't the right word either.
Chimney sweeps don't foreshadow anything, do they?
It's confusing to think that the woman who once entered the deli drunk would, when asked years later why she was crying, say: 'Because of what you've made of yourself.'
A person burdened with ugly hands and feet had no desire to hear outbursts concerning the similarities between hers elf and a troll.
When they were gone, I called my wife's hotel.
It was badly wrapped in Christmas paper.
One of her eyes was a little sore-Iooking.
And I thought about a crocodile-Leather belt 1'd been planning to buy, until I saw the price tag.
It offers the reader a selection of the artist's most unforgettable canvases as well as some lesser-known examples, many drawn from the collection of the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam.
Once again I thought about The Infertile, and about the silent woman across from me, about the scratch-off lottery tickets, and about a crocodile belt I could wear until I died, and finally I asked her: 'Are you infertile?'
'I'm Rebecca,' she said, and we shook hands.
'Ciao,' I called out.
Open a grocery store around the corner?'
I picked another grape out of my fruit salad, held it in my hand for a moment, then put it back.
Then he'd jumped.
If you're too lazy to buy your own, stop shaving your legs. Nobody looks at them any more, anyway.
'Don't you think people look better when they smile, not counting a few exceptions here and there?' I asked.
At the end of this month I have to pay American Express fifty thousand dollars, and I'm already two months behind, you understand?
He shows her seated, cigarette in hand, at one of the tambourine-shaped tables that gave the establishment its name.
Around the church tower, which has already lost its steeple, lies the churchyard with its scattering of simple crosses.
Section Four Arles, Saint Rémy and Auvers 1889-1890
For all that he had longed for this collaboration, Van Gogh found working with Gauguin in the autumn of 1888 taxing, and it induced some loss of confidence on his part.
Romantic town, Lisbon.
'We should do this more often,' I said. 'It helps, I can tell.'
I tried to get corps, I mean, to express the material in such a way that they become heavy, solid lumps,' he explained to Theo .
The failure was due largely to the blue cheese.
But by five to three I still hadn't found it.
'To do a little more dancing,' said my wife-to-be.
"I leaned over and examined her hands with interest
 zei ik."
In one (ill. 130), painted in a decorative, boldly dabbed touch, he adopted almost the same viewpoint as the previous year, the road overlooking the plain of La Crau.
He mused about hanging the portrait flanked on either side by paintings of sunflowers so as to form a glowing triptych, or alternating with such paintings to form a decorative sequence.
Why Svevo?
'We'll go in an hour. My chauffeur's coming to pick us up.'
I know nothing about chimneys.
Garbage in the hall is nothing unusual - sometimes homeless people sleep there - and I was about to kick it aside when I saw something written on it.
It wasn't a fancy kitchen, but this was about therapy, and she had those eyes that always looked at me lovingly when she asked for a slice of vegetable quiche, that made me feel as though she was asking for something very different.
 zei ik, 'die ik iedere dag naar boven moet rollen.'"
It is as though Van Gogh aligns himself here with the modern French novel, of which he was an increasingly avid reader, and its more pliable and ironic philosophy (for La Joie de vivre is emphatically not a joyful book), in opposition to his father's self-righteous inflexibility.
Not that he derived anything but confirmation of his hatred of academic teaching from the experience of drawing from plaster casts there.
For a moment there I considered calling my wife and asking her advice, but a chimney was too trivial a reason to bother someone taking part in a conference about dreams.
It looked quite festive.
And the two of us speak only English together.'
And if not in butterflies, then certainly in scratch-off lottery tickets.
'What?'
That's good for turnover.
We'd been living on borrowed money for the last six months.
I told her that, in my leisure time, I was working on a book entitled 268th in the World.
'Oh, and before I forget, there's more than one café in the museum: let's make it the Garden Café.'
A few hours earlier I had eaten dinner at the home of a vague acquaintance.
'In case you actually get rid of the big fridge,' she said.
She was working on her last slice of vegetable quiche.
What a remarkable psychotherapist she'll make, I thought.
Letters to the Weatherman wasn't such a bad title.
When we got home in the middle of the night, that was the last time we'd had sex.
Slowly, because I liked counting out change, even when there were a lot of customers waiting.
Maybe everything would finally start rolling now.
'Maybe we could bake cookies,' she said, massaging her left foot.
He didn't seem to care whether mice had been nibbling at the crisps, as long as the ovens were clean.
"Finally he was able to tell Theo: 'the reaper is finished. I think it will be one of those you'll keep at home -- it's an image of death as the great book of nature speaks of it -- but the effect I've been looking for is -- ""on the point of smiling""."
"Although begun outdoors, this laboured composition was probably continued in the studio
Did the entire concept of mental incompetence have any substance at all outside the courtroom?
My hair held rain too.
She smoked like a person who'd rather die today than wait for tomorrow.
Haggling over a suitcase without knowing what's in it.
'There's nothing I can do about it.
Although his hopes of making sales through such work came to nought, some of these studies (ill. 7) anticipate the compression and atmospheric power of later landscapes painted in Arles or Auvers.
"However, this type of support assumed a relatively lean method of paint application that allowed the pigment to seep into the ground, like Gauguin's own (ill. 102, 103)
That evening she was wearing a short skirt, my wife-to-be. It looked like a Scottish kilt, but without the brooch, and she had on high heels.
Her speech on the concept of non compos mentis had been well-received.
He chose not to paint them.
He'd thrown his furniture out the window first.
'Did that weatherman have a striking nose, too?'
] Others may have more lucidity than I do in the matter of abstract studies, and it is certainly possible that you are one of their number, Gauguin too [ ...
While I was having my coffee and calvados, of which I drank only half - I'm a man of enormous self-control - I started talking to a man who was wearing glasses that had only one earpiece.
'Don't you mind that?'
 As for his resolutely down-to-earth choice of subjects, he clearly concurred with Michelet's view, expressed in Le Peuple (1846), that to depict successfully the 'family, the work, the most humble life of the people  one needs eyes adjusted to  subdued light, eyes to see into the small, dark, humble places, and a heart too to help one see into these recesses of the home, these Rembrandtesque shadows.'
That letter made such an impression on me that I learned it by heart, maybe as a sort of charm.
Known the world over, Vincent Van Gogh continues to exert a compelling fascination.
But maybe that cubicle was empty.
"I'm opening a second-hand clothing store."""
I couldn't tell how old she was.
My bank accounts have been frozen.
He also had any number of good addresses to do his purchasing.
Gauguin, for his part, was loath to leave Brittany, for there his work had at last been fulfilling its promise.
I furnished myself with a minor distraction by writing them a letter.
Van Gogh envisaged Provence primarily as a painter and in terms of colour: it was 'the land of the blue tones and gay colours' . He spoke of a desire to experience the colour and warmth of the true south as it had been expressed by Delacroix (in his north African paintings), and to find an equivalent of the gaiety he found in the landscapes of Japan.
It is an interesting question to ask how far this body of work was primarily reactive, a response to the stimulus Arles itself provided -- as Van Gogh's letters often imply -- and how far it was the result of careful preparation and of his preordained plan to paint the south in brilliant colours.
By the time he began making his first tentative essays in drawing at the age of twenty-six, he had already achieved a considerable degree of self-knowledge.
I haven't seen her in high heels for years.
When the actress ended up in hospital with a liver ailment, Capano began doing odds and ends for me.
He started out with a small number of flower heads -- three, then five -- giving his compositions dramatic tonal contrast and rhetorical force.
'I still want to know,' said the girlfriend of my wife-to-be.
With this unprecedentedly brash style, which he would develop in Arles in a series of portraits of working people, Van Gogh effectively established new parameters for portraiture.
 voor je het weet is je leven voorbijgegaan en heb je niets gezegd."
I didn't watch fashion shows very often, and when I did, I didn't pay attention to the models' faces.
Van Gogh was pleased with the results: 'I really believe there is some soundness and truth in them,' he told Theo, and made a pen-and-ink sketch of one of his earliest paintings (ill. 1) in a letter (ill. 2).
By two o'clock I was already at the museum. A class of schoolchildren arrived along with me.
But a number of major canvases painted in July reflect a different mood (ill. 168, 169).
It undoubtedly acted as a goad on Van Gogh: he was determined to have enough good work to impress his colleague and to decorate the house in a welcoming way.
The melancholy that had hit me the day before during the chimney sweeps' visit came back now, but twofold.
My editor admitted that he had never heard of anyone who could do that.
Writing to Theo about his most considered version (ill. 140), he explained that it was done from memory after a study of the same size made on the spot, and that it was the fruit of a protracted spate of work on the theme.
The modest walled farms and their gardens delighted him with their cheerful aspect: 'here farms and low pubs are less dreary and less dramatic than in the North, since the warmth, etc., makes poverty less harsh and melancholy.'
How many apostles were there again?'
Her speech was precisely about whether mental incompetence could be quantified.
Thank you for the confidence shown in me.'
A bit too hurriedly.
I'll give him a note to hand to you,' Capano said.
So, in order to counter the 'sharpness' of the raw pinks, greens and oranges, he had introduced, pursuing his musical analogy, certain 'flats' in the form of reds and greens.
If so, I felt she should just come out and say it.
But I didn't mind, because he made me laugh.
Then there was the personality of Van Gogh himself.
In fact, you could divide my life into epochs: the all-night deli epoch, the scratch-off-lottery-ticket epoch.
'The weatherman?'
Was she talking about looking grumpy?
This device, like a window frame criss-crossed with strings, helped him organise the chaotic information provided by nature into logical structures.
The Alyscamps, a tree-lined avenue punctuated with Roman tombs, was one of the few sites where they worked together, both painting autumnal views.
Painted a year later, Flowers in a blue vase (ill. 37) offers a disparate range of mark-making within a single composition, from the long diagonal and curved strokes that give realistic solidity to the table surface and the vase, to the short, more impressionistic, dabs that correspond to the different flower petals, and the scattering of pointillist blue dots that animate the background.
But I don't keep a diary.
If you want, I can even have you dropped off in front of the Museum of Natural History.'
Back in those days I always thought aggression was going to focus on me.
Or, better yet, have it printed on curtains.
Was she serious about this, or was she just trying to see how I'd react?
The sky and windswept trees offer little protection to this 'little human nest', as Van Gogh described it.
I had to spray for three minutes before the thing died.
He took the most expensive bottles of wine home with him in plastic bags and sold them, or he drank them himself when he was feeling sombre, which was fairly often.
A second view of the same bridge in grey weather creates a wholly different effect (ill. 71).
The painter adopts a low-level viewpoint to maximise the vertical thrust of the flowers and their sword-like leaves.
I got up and walked to the front of the restaurant, where they sold cakes and ice cream as well.
'That's what I'm here for, to warm things up.'
It was heavy.
Being rich is unimportant, the point is to make sure people think you're rich.
'I have a friend,' she said. 'She's an artist.
After a brief silence, she said: 'I've never slept with anyone who works in an all-night deli.'
To Mr R Mehlman, I read.
The impulse to put behind him the bustle and distraction, expense, stress and cold of the city was real and urgent.
Here was unworked terrain. He felt comfortable in this unpretentious provincial town.
And a butterfly collection.'
Instead of the broad flat expanses of colour bounded by strong cloisonist contours, or the choppy, short, woven textures seen in certain Arles paintings, he now tended to subject his compositions to a unifying flame-like motion.
The museum was bigger than I'd expected.
Is it cold outside?'
St Ambroeus' was emptying out.
"She'd recently started a daytime job working with juvenile delinquents
By the spring of 1887 Van Gogh's cityscapes and landscapes began to change in character.
A story about a woman who becomes absorbed in her napkin, a woman and her hands.
One of those things you call down upon yourself without meaning to.
'You can borrow one from me.'
 de bevestiging van zijn talent door mensen die hij niet persoonlijk kende, met name de Nederlanders J.J. Isaacson en Jacob Meyer de Haan, die kort tevoren bij Theo in Parijs waren geweest en het werk van Van Gogh bewonderden
By March 1886 Van Gogh at last felt confident enough as an artist to exploit the stimulus Paris could bring him without losing sight of his long-term artistic objectives.
Looking back on his own socially awkward transition from evangelist to artist, he drew a parallel with the bird at the time of moulting.
Then you just push a button and the chimney draws like there's no tomorrow.
Or something along those lines.
But the drawings he made of them have a forced, stiff look, which was not conducive to arranging a plausible scene.
'What do you people expect me to do?' I shouted.
My love of fireplaces has its bounds, but my wife is possessed of many inexplicable desires.
'I went to Sunday school.'
I had once told someone that writing was a profession like any other. Some people sold shoes, others wrote.
When she came back a few evenings after that, she was cheerful. She'd had, or so it seemed to me, an extremely enjoyable evening at a discotheque.
In contrast to the spare, four-square furniture and the more subdued tones of the walls and floor, the sensuous wedge of red paint denoting the bedcover is trowelled on with a flourish.
>From this date on Van Gogh would often adopt a similar procedure.
Van Gogh's friendship with Roulin gave him an equivalent opportunity, which he relished.
Yet I would still appreciate a message from you to indicate whether you can endorse the form and content of my novel.'
'My smoking doesn't bother you, does it?'
 Since first arriving in Provence, Van Gogh had looked at the night sky a good deal.
Waiting at the crosswalk, Iran into an old lady I knew from the coffee house.
Human life was all but excluded. With the exception of a couple of self-portraits and a notable portrait of the attendant Trabu (ill. 144), whose features reminded Van Gogh of a Spanish grandee -- 'he has something military with his small quick black eyes'  -- his interest in portraiture seems, in the main, to have been deferred.
That was nicely said.
'Power is a two-edged sword,' the journalist said, and shook my hand. 'But it's not too repulsive for you to wield?'
The Infertile, maybe that was a good title.
In order to saving money, Gauguin purchased a large roll of jute, a coarse canvas that they could cut to size and stretch themselves.
My wife always ate without making spots on the tablecloth, but no matter how I tried, I always spilled things.
A story about someone who couldn't stop talking about her monstrous hands.
'Why cigars?'
For one thing, he did not confine himself to looking at his contemporaries. First he sought to refresh his memory of the work of Delacroix and other masters in the Louvre.
'Care for a few scratch-off tickets?' I asked when he'd finished talking.
Nothing seemed to interest him, nothing but his books.
The young man on the other end of the line seemed to have no idea what I was calling about.
"And it all looked better in the brochures
His preference was for realist painting, landscape, peasant subjects and portraiture, genres which related directly to the great traditions of Dutch seventeenth-century painting, which he came to know in the major galleries of London, Paris and Holland.
Later in the year, he talked about reworking and refining certain 1888 canvases which he had already sent to Theo -- specifically The Tarascon diligence (ill. 89), the Green vineyard (ill. 100), The harvest (ill. 112) and the Red cabaret, which was Van Gogh's way of referring to The Night café (ill. 116).
The roughness of the canvas and its coarse execution match the unpretentious, workaday character of the motif.
If all loneliness has a smell, what did this smell like?
"Inclusion at Les Vingt, on the other hand, was by invitation only
'Twelve apostles,' she said.
Rebecca was soaked to the bone.
And this combined with the blue -- from the deepest royal blue of the water to the blue of the forget-me-nots, cobalt, particularly clear, bright blue -- green-blue and violet-blue.'
'My wife has tried to drag me along to the dinosaurs a few times, but she never succeeds.'
I still hadn't found a form into which to pour my jokes.
With Roulin, whom he painted no fewer than six times, he wanted to convey something of the man's fierce republicanism.
'Finally something goes right.'
It is remarkable that Van Gogh, a foreigner in Paris and socially somewhat gauche, even irascible, seemed to succeed so unerringly in identifying the artists of talent of his generation.
'Oh, well,' I said, 'everything, really.'
"In this dramatic composition, a swirling pattern of brushstrokes unites earth and sky
Then there were the difficulties of colour, of conveying through its earthiness the cramped space of the dark cottage and the figures' relationship to the soil.
Everything there was going well.
'Tomorrow would be fine.'
Something that wasn't quite right, or, in any case, something peculiar.
If rain was not much of a problem, the biting mistral that gathered force as it funnelled down the Rhône valley was a phenomenon he had not encountered before.
Van Gogh approached it from an oblique angle -- a test of his mastery of perspective -- and in fading light, the heavy overhang of the thatch helping to give a firm sense of its volume.
Like a bath you never get out of.
It's not prudent to respond to messages on pieces of cardboard you find lying in the stairwell.
I asked several museum guards, but they didn't seem to know either.
I'd never realised that baking cookies could be as exciting as climbing Mount Everest, or a first, cautious kiss.
'No, Rebecca,' I said, 'you're not keeping me from my work.
My nostrils were stuffed up.
'You don't?'
Looking back on it, working at the all-night deli turned out to be grander and more compelling than going to translation sessions.
"] I think we can wait patiently for success to come
I waited for another letter to say that this attempt had failed as well, but the letter never came.
'We've already done that.'
'And they mean it from the bottom of their hearts,' Capano explained to me. 'They think about all the money they paid for those cookies, and they taste divine.'
One day the woman fainted on the toilet and started a small fire that was relatively easy to contain.
'You go to the restaurant.'
'I'm all right,' I said.
It couldn't have been a coincidence, her sitting there across from me with a sculpture made by a psoriasis patient.
And the people would nod and say they had never tasted anything so divine.
'Okay,' I said. 'Then 1'll give you the prettiest answer.'
'Not secretly, and not unsecretly.'
I crossed out a few superfluous words and broke a few sentences in two.
Throughout his career Van Gogh was obsessed with the image of the sower, and he wanted to make a masterpiece on the theme.
 er was een legerkazerne en een bordeel voor de soldaten."
'Before my lovers came over, I always scrubbed the house with a sponge scourer.'
Every time he picked up the brush, he thought of himself in relation to others, comparing his methods and results, not unfavourably, with styles that were now familiar to him, with artists he now regarded as his peers.
Van Gogh reasoned that his best contribution lay in the practical business of making pictures.
'I work for the Justice Department,' she said, 'with juvenile delinquents. '
Both works represent empty chairs, but they have violently opposed colour harmonies, and this was Van Gogh's neat way of summarising the similarities, and yet separation, between two formidable artistic comrades.
She was wearing the same clothes she'd had on that afternoon.
We both watched with interest.
Based on Augustine Roulin, the wife of the postman whose whole family Van Gogh had painted over recent months, it was intended to be a deeply consoling image, emblematic of motherhood.
'Have you ever baked cookies?'
Nevertheless, I decided that the purchase of a crocodile belt was a justifiable one, in view of the immortality of its leather.
It was the piece of cardboard in particular that fascinated me: why not a sheet of paper, a grocery receipt, or even a napkin?
The way she said it made it sound as if she didn't believe a word of it, as if it were only same excuse I'd made up, as if I'd invented a wife.
My wife's patients were referred to as 'clients' and were paid a nominal fee to come to the day clinic, thereby creating the illusion that they were actually employed.
'The wind blows right into the chimney, we need a ventilator on the roof, but it's going to cost a fortune,' was the message I left behind.
'Sure,' I said. 'You can hide here.
Then, suddenly, I sensed that the woman with the package had been there for a long time already, that she was observing me from behind one of the dimly lit displays.
I believe it was the same day she went out and bought that smoked breast of duck.
This disappointment amid the increasingly sceptical environment of the period contributed to shaking Van Gogh's faith, and henceforth he modified his commitment to Christianity.
'Dear chimney sweeps,' I wrote. 'You left your flashlight at my house.
"Such rustic and picturesque motifs as Farms near Auvers seem to belong organically to the landscape, and they suited Van Gogh's increasing tendency to distort and twist straight lines
Although painted en plein air, unlike some of his smaller studies of orchards, he considered this painting to be 'probably the best I've ever made.' .
No matter how minor, a transaction is a transaction, and you should make the most of it.
In real life.
Why a piece of cardboard?
In the past I have occasionally claimed that you can only see fate as ineluctable when you suffer from a chronic lack of fantasy, when you close your eyes to all the possibilities left unexplored.
I picked a grape out of my fruit salad.
She had another cigarette in her mouth.
'I do,' I said. 'But she tends to work late.'
He emphasised a simple pink and red colour harmony set off by a green background, and tempered his brushwork to animate discreetly the large flat surfaces, clearly bearing in mind the decorative design of Japanese kakemono prints. When he gave the painting to the sitter, he also gave her two Japanese prints of the same size and format to hang on either side.
 He never lost his intense love of the countryside, where he felt more at home than in the city.
'No,' I said. all the limousines Capano had arranged for me through the years went driving by in my mind. Ir looked like a funeral procession for some big Mafia don.
Now I have.
 He found himself fascinated by the overall character of the luminous light and the crisp, colourful patterns created by the spiky southern vegetation.
My wife was better at that kind of thing.
He executed two beautiful paintings on the subject.
Shyness, probably. I weighed words that shouldn't have been weighed at all.
But that happens fairly often.
She leaned over a little.
I said I really wanted.
Would you allow us to print the translated story in our university magazine?
'What do you mean?'
For anything, you hear me!'
'Make it a children's book or a comic book, or have you already done that too?
But I didn't know how to do it.
"Throughout March and April Van Gogh was in total collapse, unable to work
But at my age, going bankrupt is nothing but a disgrace.
You think I'm saturated with a hundred and thirty-seven guilders and fifty-four cents?
When can you come and get it?
"She knew what she was talking about
'How broke are you?'
The masterpieces of the great Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh make a unique impact.
As soon as the person being manipulated has surrendered, has come under one's sway, and the distinction between person and character has been almost completely wiped out, it's over.
But while he applauded the daring colouristic simplification of Anquetin's The mower at noon (ill. 77), for instance, or Bernard's Earthenware pot and apples (ill. 64), canvases he would have been happy to have painted himself, he would not go along with cloisonism's latent tendency towards abstraction and symbolism.
The right choice of words can render bearable the most uncivil remarks.
But the idiosyncratic dabbed and striped brushwork of these portraits and their absorption in the effects of complementary colours deliberately counter the more conventional style of contemporary realist portraiture, brought up to date by an awareness of photography.
She looked so grumpy.
I nodded as though that was exactly as I'd thought, and then, just to break the silence, I said: 'They also have some very lovely dinosaurs here.
Although I'd known him for quite some time it wasn't completely clear how he got along, but I felt that was also none of my business.
It was a chance to meet other young Dutch painters, many of whom shared his commitment to plein-air realism.
I like to surround myself with invalids and others in a state of decay.
The eggs I'd had that morning were working their way back up.
To counteract this, he produced another group of studies concentrating on certain gestures and movements: gnarled hands wielding forks or pouring from a jug.
"In Olive trees (ill. 136), arabesques run riot through the whole composition, and the brightly lit landscape is dominated by a weirdly figurative, almost maternal-looking white cloud
In fact, I never talk to men much.'
Which, in retrospect, does constitute an advantage.
Some women like to smoke cigars in the middle of the night.
At the same time, the painting is a study of the setting for his exhibition of Japanese prints: on the walls one glimpses a display of coloured images, including, to the right, a full-length Japanese actor print.
'Is it clear enough?' she'd asked in the cab on the way to the airport.
She'd published a number of articles on the subject.
But one cannot overlook the fact that he was all too familiar with the cruel workings of the capitalist art market and perhaps reasoned that his immediate family would only stand to gain from the upsurge in value his work would enjoy once the source of production dried up.
A few tables away, grated cheese was being sprinkled over a plate of pasta.
'I didn't think you were a model, but that doesn't necessarily mean anything. I don't usually think people are models.'
Van Gogh made a series of landscape views of Montmartre, where he was living with Theo, first in rue Laval and then in rue Lepic.
By December 1883 Van Gogh was driven to seek refuge once again with his parents, now based near Eindhoven in Nord Brabant, in the parish of Nuenen.
'She takes classes to learn how to make sculptures of people she sees on TV?'
'Maybe she likes them.
'I figured: if I look grumpy, people will think I'm a model.
He said he appreciated my idea, but he didn't think the market was quite ripe for literature printed on curtains.
Rebecca lit another cigarette.
'No,' she said, 'not really. It's all a matter of establishing trust.'
"I didn't go home. Instead, I said: 'Functioning is playing ""as if"".'"
'And a few rubbers, just to be safe, and anything else you think I might need.'
The words I'd been meaning to say had escaped me.
There was a brief flirtation with more modern, Monet-like motifs, informal suburban views of the river Seine with its bridges and overgrown banks.
The problem was more that, with her salary, we could pay the rent, the gas (which we never used), the phone bill, and buy a pair of shoes and maybe a couple of bottles of milk, but no more than that.
Colds came and went.
This canvas was Van Gogh's homage to Anquetin's cloisonist interpretation of the subject with its reminiscence of old farming almanacs, which he had intensely admired the previous year (ill. 77).
He was proud of Dutch achievements in this genre and fervently hoped to continue the tradition of Rembrandt and Frans Hals.
In the spring of 1887 the two painters met in Asnières, while exploring the suburban landscape with its seemingly unpicturesque juxtapositions of leisure and work, river, railway and towpath, open fields, factories and new apartments.
What drew him south was Theo van Gogh's offer of regular financial assistance in return for keeping an eye on his brother.
What is striking about both this and his earlier weaver painting (ill. 12) is the way in which Van Gogh articulates the space.
My wife had patients who spent the whole day staring at the wall.
In August 1888 Van Gogh spoke with renewed enthusiasm in his letters about the grand plan he had for painting modern portraits.
The different areas of the composition are variously handled.
To say nothing of a chimney that draws.'
There is surely a telling contrast between the study of boots painted soon after arrival (ill. 33) and the lighter, more colourful study painted the following year (ill. 41).
Her intonation and the way she moved her shoulders seemed to suggest that I'd asked a stupid question.
While the small flecked brushmarks used for the sitter's complexion are consistent with recent self-portraits, the unmodulated execution of the green bodice and red lower wall, bound within solid contour lines, pays homage to Gauguin, as does the inclusion of the latter's armchair.
She looked at me without explaining why she looked so grumpy, then went back to her risotto.
 een bodemprocedure is ook al tegen mij aangespannen."
'What kind of meat was it?'
'So make a movie out of it,' I shouted into the phone.
His own work, meanwhile, shows him acclimatising more gradually to the physical reality of the city.
And so she became a regular client for our vegetable quiche.
"The colours were carefully planned: 'the ground is violet, and, farther off, yellow ochre
I know from experience that there are lies you keep telling right up to the bitter end.
All his female students learn something from him, but he learns nothing from them.
In The Hague Van Gogh also tackled some broad panoramic landscapes in watercolour, organising his designs with the aid of his perspective frame.
'They're like catcher's mitts, my hands.'
Van Gogh wanted his portraits, like The potato eaters, to contribute to his mission to teach the art public a thing or two about the ordinary human beings one encountered in provincial life and their popular, uncomplicated tastes.
Two are ambitious in scale, and all emphasise the consistency and connectedness of his artistic approach.
Japanese art was a key factor in the emergence of cloisonism, an innovative style developed in tandem by two of Van Gogh's friends from Cormon's studio, Louis Anquetin (1861-1932) and Emile Bernard.
 maar uiteindelijk bedenk ik niet het hele schilderij, ik vind het daarentegen kant en klaar in de natuur, maar moet het daar nog uithalen.'"
Is that what you call realistic?
Capano was bom in Antwerp, but he'd worn out his weIcome there and escaped to New York.
To start with he worked alone and relied on Theo, who was now based in Paris working for Goupil's in Vincent's stead, to supply him with specific prints to copy and French drawing manuals.
It was partly due to his attending the art school run by Fernand Cormon (1845-1924), an academic painter who had the reputation of being one of the more flexible teachers in Paris.
She was wearing it up now, that afternoon it had been hanging down in long strands along her face.
The season of reminders and warning notices had begun.
 zei ik, 'dat weet ik ook niet.'"
I looked at the ashtray, the pack of cigarettes, his hands.
'Call me Paul,' he said. 'To you, it's Paul.'
At a certain point I started going straight from home to the deli, and from the deli straight back home.
But once an exceptionally cold spell abated, he began working out of doors under the Mediterranean sky.
These days I'm fairly confident about my jokes.
'What were you thinking about?' she asked.
I watched a movie, a thriller, then I worked on my article about Svevo.
I had discovered scratch-off lottery tickets about four months before that, and I'd decided that when it came to manual therapy, very little could beat the scratch-off lottery ticket.
She was absorbed in her napkin, which she looked at like she was seeing a burning bush.
I had put the statuette, unopened, plastic bag and all, in front of the fireplace.
We'll go down by car and be back tomorrow morning.
"For The furrows (ill. 104), a subject he had already tackled in the north, Van Gogh used broad brushstrokes and mellow colours to characterise earth that had just been turned over ready for the new sowing
The decision to convey the south in terms of heightened colour was a conscious and, to some degree, an arbitrary one.
In celebrating his major paintings, this book seeks to trace the development of Van Gogh's convictions and decision-making, the goals he set himself, the influences he embraced, the limitations he accepted and the obstacles he overcame in order to paint them.
When they've finished one book, they can hang new curtains.
In my inside pocket were about twenty scratch-off tickets, but I was saving them for after the coffee.
They looked like pin curls.
Three of his uncles were art dealers, and his paternal uncle Vincent was a partner of the French firm Goupil et Cie.
 The rhythms of his work were to some extent determined by outside factors such as the weather and the season.
In The mowers?, for instance, he offsets the field of wheat, a medley of yellows through which a mower toils, with a hazy blue townscape blurred by steam from factory chimneys and smoke from a passing train (ill. 76).
We'd applauded so loudly for him that he'd come over to our table.
They were pills.
One of my great-uncles had even bought a new house in order to be closer to his family doctor, that's how often he went in.
How would you like to go to Atlantic City with me tonight?
Van Gogh's analytic interest in and appreciation of nature started from the ground up and often began with the soil itself, its textures, colours and patterns.
One of them had a bandana tied around his head, the other was almost bald.
En route for Auvers, Van Gogh passed through Paris and briefly returned to the bosom of his family.
The rhythmic organicism that comes to the fore in this canvas is seen in two other key works painted as day and night pendants at around the same time.
I stirred my cocktail with a straw.
I tried to visit an asylum once, because I was curious, but they wouldn't let me in.
When the cookies were all gone, we said goodbye.
As far as I could remember, I'd never carried on a conversation about ugly hands.
So the man figures: well, if everyone believes me, maybe I should just keep it up.
His brushwork began to acquire a sinuous vitality that infuses the whole of his canvas surface.
Pious Jews kiss their prayerbooks after use, and I had made a habit of kissing my lottery tickets beforehand.
 de duidelijk zichtbare penseelstreken volgen getrouw de lijnen van de biezen zitting en de nerven van de houten sporten."
The only address on their bill was a post-office box.
I have a package with me from the Netherlands that should be handed to you personally.
"She made a sculpture of you, and when she heard that I was going to New York she said: ""Would you give him this?"""
Van Gogh had for some time intended to return to the north.
As members of the Dutch Reformed church, Theodorus and Anna van Gogh strove to live by Christian values.
The day she left, she'd asked if I'd look at her speech.
Unlike the tendency in his pen-and-ink drawing to analyse detail and the textures of landscape, he laid on the oil paint in thick, viscous bands differentiated by subtle tonal gradations (ill. 10, 11).
'I always do that,' I said.
 zei ze."
 His perception of the peasant was of a man scarcely removed from a wild beast, similar to the characters in Zola's La Terre (1887).
They were extremely disappointed.
'Fleeing works up an appetite,' I said.
I bent down.
'Do you function?' Rebecca asked.
She inhaled greedily.
Have you ever heard of anyone who could live on a hundred and thirty-seven guilders and fifty-four cents a quarter?'
That this was all a hoax.
That evening there would be a party but she wasn't planning to stay late.
This creative dialogue between drawing and painting, coupled with the fact that he now felt considerably less inhibited about working out of doors than he had in the Paris region, enabled Van Gogh to hit his stride as a landscapist during the summer of 1888.
I needed to invent a name for her.
This painting again revisits a theme remembered from Nuenen, the church tower.
'No,' I said, 'you've never seen her before.
His greed merely increases.
When you're young, bankruptcy still has the air of adventure.
Nevertheless, at a theoretical level, he was able to learn how Delacroix made up his palette and retained the vibrancy of his colours by applying them in separate strokes of juxtaposed complementaries.
Over the long term, the Van Gogh family was immensely supportive of Vincent, patient without being restrictive, but on occasion relations were certainly difficult.
'You have a chauffeur?' Rebecca asked.
Back then I hadn't met very many psychotherapists.
But she gave me her old coat.'
'They already had dirty homes of their own.'
Nor did he refrain from making disapproving comments about the Dutchman's more frenetic rate of production.
One of Van Gogh's most ambitious canvases, The bridges at Asnières (ill. 65), is a complex composition made up of man-made structures criss-crossing the space -- horizontal bridges, vertical piles, funnels and chimneys -- enlivened with little touches of human activity: an engine driver, figures in boats, a fashionably-dressed lady strolling in pink with a red parasol.
I explained the whole story to him one more time.
'Forty-six copies sold and four hundred and twenty-seven copies returned? What's this supposed to mean?'
However, the city did lead him to make a vital discovery: he began to study Japanese prints and acquired a first batch of them.
Not because being found out would be such a disaster, but because there are same illusions you don't want to end.
It was late in the evening.
Whether the ovens were clean.
For a moment there I thought he was going to kiss me.
'Dry your hair first,' I said.
This despite the fact that I am the one who taught all these people who are now taking me to court how to spell their own names, how to eat with a knife and fork.
There goes twenty bucks, I thought.
What brought on these attacks is impossible to judge. Was the elating yet disturbing news that his work was gradually reaching an audience, the prospect of increasing exposure, too much for Van Gogh to take, impinging as it did on his year-long period of seclusion?
'Aren't you ever scared?'
'For a biologist.'
That I start a grocery store here around the corner.
During dinner at a little French restaurant where lots of older, single men came, I thought about Letters to My Chimney Sweep.
Of course the smoke could also have been bothering her.
I'd sold forty-six books, for which I'd receive one hundred and thirty-seven guilders and fifty-four cents.
'Better than having psoriasis,' I said.
"At first in Arles he had had little luck with finding models
I was the first one up, because she always slept through the alarm.
The author considers Van Gogh as a cosmopolitan figure who combined in his art experiences and traditions absorbed in his native Holland, in Great Britain and in Belgium, and then succeeded in assimilating and making his mark upon the practice of painting in France at one of its richest periods.
'Again?' he said.
That day went by like many other days that year.
'Actually?'
People who make you laugh are rare.
Behind the head, instead of painting the ordinary wall of the mean room, I paint infinity, a plain background of the richest, intensest blue that I can contrive, and by this simple combination of the bright head against the rich blue background, I get a mysterious effect, like a star in the depths of an azure sky.'
I was already in my pyjamas when the phone rang.
I still didn't have the courage to open the bag, even though it lay there on the table so invitingly.
"In July 1889 a seizure and ensuing depression kept him confined indoors for the remaining summer months
A postcard you'd written, but for same strange reason never mailed.
In the downstairs hall, right in front of the door, I found a piece of cardboard.
She stared at a piece of vegetable quiche, while I kept one eye on the door and wondered what I would do if some of that brute aggression accidentally focused on me.
Two new studies of allotments on the hill of Montmartre -- painted in vibrating dabs across the whole surface -- demonstrate how much Van Gogh's technique had evolved since the previous year (ill. 45, 46).
 Whether or not this surprising claim was sincere, Van Gogh resumed drawing with a renewed energy and sense of purpose, using pens fashioned from the reeds that grew wild in Provence (reed pen was a medium he had used several years earlier in Holland).
In the autumn he was busy with a new series of still lifes, some featuring local earthenware (ill. 16), others potatoes (ill. 25), a theme so dusty and monochrome it was scarcely likely to appeal to the public.
'But you like gambling, don't you?
Back then I wasn't confident about my jokes.
Clearly, butterflies and dinosaurs were one and the same to her.
At a quarter to three I thought: now I can rightfully appear at the Garden Café.
He was delighted that this rural setting had something of the character of the Brabant he remembered from childhood.
I'd been sitting across from her in silence, watching her clean her plate.
This drew attention to the symbolic role of cypresses in his work -- as important as sunflowers.
'Oh, lots, and she wants me to go to the acupuncturist.'
All good people were broke, it seemed, and they spent money that wasn't theirs to spend.
In other words, Arles, unlike artists' colonies in the north, had a working life of its own and was not dependent on tourism or visiting painters.
'What are you crying about?' I'd asked her.
Indeed, like many of Lautrec's models, La Segatori, a former artist's model, was a worldly and jaded character.
Sometimes we passed a little information back and forth.
He talked to me about a political crisis, and I listened passively, as I usually do when talk turns to politics.
At many levels, then, Vincent's chair with pipe embodies Van Gogh's essential traits as a painter.
'If this chauffeur drives only for me, I should know his name.
Time would not allow him that privilege.
Alongside these attempts that Van Gogh made to engage with specifically Parisian subject matter, in a number of his Paris paintings he seemed deliberately to turn back to familiar themes from Holland, as though to monitor his own stylistic evolution.
 zei ik, en zij zei: 'Je kan de telefoon ook gebruiken om zelf eens te bellen."
He completed his first Portrait of Dr Gachet in the striated technique he had cultivated in Saint-Rémy, while the second, intended for the doctor, is painted in somewhat smoother blocks of colour (ill. 163).
I had to write a new book, not a collection of stories or a book of poems, but a novel that would allow me to pay my debt to American Express and to Visa.
The quarter was fast being colonised by artists' studios and the entertainment world, dance halls, cheap brasseries, circuses.
I didn't really have any friends, but the term 'personal secretary' alone didn't quite cover it.
While he was in hospital, he was visited by Paul Signac, en route for Cassis on the Mediterranean coast.
This reply, too, came a bit quickly.
The mere thought of it made me gag.
It was thus natural for the dreamy adolescent Vincent to be sent in 1869 to work at the firm's branch in The Hague.
While he never expected to achieve an equivalent calm in his own work, short hatched parallel strokes became a hallmark of Van Gogh's mature painting style, as did swift execution and heightened colour.
This uninhibited little portrait shows him applying Rubensesque lessons in colour, using a brighter palette overall and introducing bold touches of red and green into the flesh tones.
'To help me quit smoking.
He made studies of ploughing and the potato harvest, the backbreaking work of the peasant farmers whose lives were rooted in the soil.
Working at an all-night delicatessen seemed the perfect way to find out.
One of those men in tuxedos who pass out towels and smile and even spray a little aftershave behind the customers' ears, so they won't smell too suspicious when they get home.
In Paris Van Gogh was able to amplify his collection of prints, regularly scouring the shops that specialised in oriental wares, such as Samuel Bing's emporium in the rue de Provence.
Later, both those smells were buried under the aroma of freshly baked cookies.
They show the open meadows of the plateau stretching to the north of Auvers, whose vastness surely brought to mind the nuanced colouristic descriptions of La Beauce in Zola's La Terre.
'What are you talking about?' I said.
'Were they the product of dirty homes?'
At the coffee house, I actually had to ask for my coffee and orange juice.
The drawings of the ramparts and several contemporary paintings reveal Van Gogh's desire to include figures, but hesitancy about doing so.
He also made repeated studies in oil of the different female heads (ill. 27).
The studies of weavers, women digging and peasant heads that date from this period relate to specific campaigns of concentrated work, as Van Gogh struggled to explore rural life exhaustively.
It had been a long time since anyone had asked me that.
Comfort lies precisely in clichés, although of course it helps a lot when you pronounce them with a sincere look on your face.
The low horizons helped him give a Millet-like monumentality to his working figures silhouetted against the sky.
That day, as I was walking to the coffee house where I had breakfast every morning, I thought about how my wife sometimes held writing sessions with her patients.
How's your wife?'
He was also fascinated by the amusing treatment of bustling human activity in Japanese prints.
A few days after my request to go into therapy, she came back to the all-night deli.
Not that he had a lot of furniture to throw: two chairs and a coffee table, no more than that.
Faced with a whole new range of enticing motifs, he had an equally enticing range of stylistic possibilities to consider.
These proactive initiatives constituted a concerted effort to intervene on behalf of the 'artists of the petit boulevard'.
As Van Gogh's remarkable series of Paris self-portraits demonstrates (ill. 40, 42, 69, 70), city living made certain social requirements of the painter, which he had been happily able to ignore whilst living in the country: he made a certain effort to spruce up his appearance, had some dental work done and acquired a smart jacket with piped collar.
Yet down that route lay his best hope of realising his aim of repaying the immense financial debt he felt he owed Theo.
I hung up, and two minutes later my editor called.
'Michael Baumgold,' Capano said. 'That's a good one.
She had little round wrinkles on her neck.
His wife carried his cane.
A strange question, I admit.
Given his mood, Van Gogh felt in tune with the big brooding skies and tempestuous weather, and he painted some small but powerful, highly tactile and simplified landscape compositions.
'Where did you learn to use your knife and fork like that?' I enquired.
I still had absolutely no idea how I must live, but I'd got better at pretending.
They always look grumpy. Haven't you ever noticed?'
 zei ik, 'ik zal erover denken.'"
It may even be one of the most important things in the world.
'Could you be a little more specific? What do you mean by depraved, do you think I'm depraved?'
The essential differences between Van Gogh and Gauguin as artists, previously anticipated, quickly surfaced during their time together.
'I'm not sure the boss would like this much,' I said, and warmed up two pieces of vegetable quiche without having to be asked.
Two bourgeois woman wearing black stand at the gate, possibly his mother and sister.
He met, at long last, his new sister-in-law, Jo, and his four-month-old nephew and namesake, Vincent, whose birth in January he had celebrated with one of the most joyous and purely decorative compositions he ever painted, Almond blossom (ill. 158).
These artists of the 'post'-Impressionist generation were decidedly disunited in style, although united by geography, as they tended to have their studios near the outer boulevards of Paris.
He was eager both for more contact with the world of painters and pictures and to test his own progress against the example of the masters.
'Good. She's in Vienna, at a conference.'
"His mind, through his reading, was well stocked with French ideas
I hadn't thought about that yet, but it seemed there could be no harm in affirming that.
It all depends on your choice of words.
'We'll be in touch real soon,' I told the chimney sweeps.
Van Gogh's assiduous image-collecting also began at this time. He compiled scrapbooks of prints and reproductions after works primarily by Dutch and French artists.
In fact, I'd recently suggested that we get rid of the fridge altogether.
Here Van Gogh was thinking not of his new colleagues in Paris but of the Dutch seventeenth-century landscapists (ill. 113).
The combination of factors that may have driven him to this ultimate act of violence and destruction -- fear of recurring illness, anger, loneliness, despair, a sense of being an intolerable burden -- are difficult to gauge today.
My arms were hurting badly, and my mother always said that pain in your arms was a sign of a coronary on its way.
The canvases he painted at this time not only featured the women pickers -- whose generalised clothing gave them a timeless quality -- but several were conceived with his mother and sister in mind.
She said she wasn't officially allowed to give therapy yet, but if I really wanted, she could try.
This panoramic scene, receptive to the changing moods of the weather, lent itself to pathetic fallacy, and in painting the canvases of the 'vast wheat fields under troubled skies' Van Gogh gave his troubled emotions free rein: 'I consciously tried to express sadness and extreme loneliness in them.'
What I said at last was pretty inept: 'So why don't you wear gloves?'
She took off her coat and sat down.
I haven't forgotten you either.
It would be hard to contrive a starker contrast of stylistic approach than that between his portrait of La Segatori and The Italian woman with carnations (ill. 55), both painted in 1887.
The passion he brought to this project reflects his reading of George Eliot's Felix Holt (1866) as well as of Michelet, who in Le Peuple had written emotively of the dire consequences for the rural worker of switching from a hand loom, whose rhythms he could control, to the factory-based power looms, whose relentless propulsion would control him.
Her eyes were still full of tears.
Why me? And for whom or what had I got myself into such deep debt?
As we scratched we carried on an intimate conversation about the price of homeopathic virility capsules.
Blossom time in April was short-lived, so he worked 'as one possessed' to capture it.
'Are you actually interested in power?' he asked me suddenly.
 had ik nog gezegd, 'het kost vanavond niets.'"
But by refusing to comply with nineteenth-century standards of decorum, by overworking the importance of the gestures and of the setting to satisfy his own requirements, Van Gogh paradoxically rendered his rural genre composition illegible.
When dinner was over, he would say to his clients: 'And now for the cookies, the best cookies in New York.
The painting has strong affinities with certain views painted by Signac (ill. 61) and by Emile Bernard.
Whereas in Paris there had been a tendency for certain of his paintings to resemble drawings in technique, now Van Gogh kept the procedures more distinct.
She almost always stopped by in the middle of the night and ate her quiche standing up.
She began messing with a bobby pin in her hair.
'Don't you think they're pretty?' the waiter asked.
He worked systematically, concentrating for the first few years on the human figure, using a variety of graphic media.
It had been a hard day.
At times, he sounds like a dealer writing to his client.
I had never realised that the person I'd made of myself was something to cry about.
Occasionally Van Gogh looks ahead in his letters, setting out broad ambitions and principles for future undertakings.
I didn't want to let her sit there with an empty glass, so I ordered another white wine.
Whereas his stay in Arles had been broken up by encounters with other artists, in Saint- Rémy Van Gogh was left entirely to his own devices.
'This is Mehlman,' I said, 'Robert G. Mehlman, and for me Mr Moesman can always come to the phone.'
I watched Rebecca wipe her mouth.
The extent to which his ideas differed from the narrower and more orthodox theology of his father can be measured by his enthusiasm for the impassioned, moralising but anti-clerical writing of Jules Michelet (1798-1874), the complexity of whose thought offered an alternative, in Van Gogh's view, to the Bible.
'Every answer is a lie,' I said, and counted out her change.
They were so loud and cheerful, it was like they'd won the lottery.
He had no health-care package.
She came in and said: 'Could I hide here for a little bit? There's someone after me.'
It's nice when waiters know your name.
She still wasn't saying much.
I paid ninety dollars for these, but you have never tasted anything so divine.'
'Yeah,' she said, 'I think it's doing you some good.'
His letters chart his struggles day by day.
'That's right,' Rebecca said, 'six of them were married and one of them was living with someone.'
'Do you see your mother a lot?'
The largest section of the canvas is given over to the sky, painted in a wholly exaggerated way with billowing blue and white clouds seen against the greenish ether, their extraordinary animation seeming to mimic the surging blue line of the rocky Alpilles.
Since leaving Paris, there have been no other translation sessions.
The long marble-topped communal tables and simple wooden rush-seated chairs establish a strong geometric framework for the composition, while all the human activity is concentrated along the far wall under the row of pictures.
 zei Rebecca opeens."
The reason often given for Van Gogh's concentration on self-portraiture in Paris is the lack of available models, but an equally important factor was surely the freedom to experiment with new techniques and capture and project different looks: the informal but penetrating Self-portrait with straw hat and artist's smock, for example (ill. 40), incomplete and sketchy though it is, looks like a determined attempt to present himself as the outdoor, plein-air painter.
'Yeah,' she said, 'I spent a lot of time practising in front of the mirror, but nothing helped.'
'Models, when they do fashion shows.
'It'll just take a few seconds,' I said to my wife-to-be.
At the time I'd mentioned something to my wife about how maybe I should stop writing and become a rest-room attendant.
It's all yellow, except for a line of purple hills, pale and golden yellow.
Fifteen minutes later, when the man who was after her still hadn't come in, I sold my wife-to-be a second piece of vegetable quiche.
'No,' she said. 'Normally, I never talk about it.
The most dangerous psychiatric patients are out on the street, I'd heard my wife say that more than once.
In the spring he had been anxious not to overtax Theo's budget, temporarily switching from the costly business of working in oils to pen and ink: 'Not being so very attached to my paintings I could leave them aside without too much complaint.'
One by one, he painted every member of the postman's family, including the baby Marcelle aged just five months, setting each of them against a different plain-coloured background.
The predominant tonality of these is blue, in contrast to the yellows of the chairs and wall.
Your friend won't mind, will she?'
It's just that I want my own razor.
This work is again similar to a certain tender strand within Lautrec's work or to the delicate, muted interiors of Berthe Morisot (1841-1895). Painted in short broken touches and with a predominantly blue harmony, it depicts a distinctly bourgeois setting and in this respect stands almost alone in Van Gogh's oeuvre.
Otherwise they'll just go to Barbarella.'
Suddenly it seemed to me that to spend the rest of my life scratching tickets would be no disaster at all.
Even the experts.
These undoubtedly included the project of representing ordinary working Parisians in their modern urban environment, a theme that had given rise to Seurat's recent masterpieces.
Although the garden of Gethsemane theme was one that he had been tempted by himself, Van Gogh now felt it was a misguided direction in which to be taking art: it was unjustified, since nature offered all the pretext one could possibly need if one wanted to convey the sadness of Christ's betrayal.
One suspects that a committed Neo-Impressionist like Signac valued the robust intellectual exchanges he could have with Van Gogh.
'What am I supposed to do? Open a grocery store, is that what you expect me to do?
There he painted a rather complex view of the hospital courtyard and its garden with radiating flower-beds, and he began a view of the ward, which he completed later in the year (ill. 127, 128).
We saved our stale bread for the bums.
In subsequent efforts his rendering became more obviously stylised in a Japanese manner (ill. 107).
Although Van Gogh was by no means the first Western artist to find Japanese art inspiring -- Monet (1840-1926), Degas (1824-1917) and Whistler (1834-1903) had all introduced aspects of Japanese art into their work in the 1860s and 1870s -- his wish to share that enthusiasm with others was a key factor in prompting the reassessment of Japonisme by the avant garde in the late 1880s.
Chimney sweeps had left a flashlight in front of my fireplace, I'd written them a letter, I had even offered to bring the flashlight back in person. My wife was in Vienna, we had separate refrigerators, my debts were growing by the minute and I was sitting across the table from a woman who claimed that she had ugly hands and feet and, to make matters worse, that she failed to function.
This time she wasn't fleeing from same creep.
You attended several of those translation sessions.
A lie, but a nice one, one that could elevate your life to a higher plane for a few seconds.
The statuette from the psoriasis patient would do nothing to change that.
That fusion produced a series of paintings that are complete worlds unto themselves, masterpieces justly deserving of our astonishment and admiration.
The last of the self-portraits Van Gogh painted in Paris, Self-portrait as an artist (ill. 69), was also the most ambitious and carefully staged.
'Listen,' I told him, 'you know better than I do that selling books is a struggle.
He wrote to Theo, 'I hope  that the family will be for you what nature, the lumps of soil, the grass, the yellow wheat, the peasant, are for me, in other words, that you find in your love for people something not only to work for, but to comfort and restore you when you need it.'
The question has to take the other person by surprise, but at the same time they should think: 'Why hasn't anyone ever asked me this before?'
In Arles, drawing resumed major importance in Van Gogh's working practice.
I asked my wife: 'So why did he have to throw all the furniture out the window?
I had no intention of spending an hour waiting in a café for someone I didn't know, so I wandered past the sharks and zebras.
On rare occasions she would take off her shoes and say: 'There, that's easier.'
At the dinosaurs, I ran into the schoolchildren again.
Faced with Gauguin's description of his recent painting Vision of the sermon, a startling departure from reality painted in a cloisonist style and intended to convey a symbolic religious meaning, Van Gogh was already nervous about this difference.
One of the most important archival resources of nineteenth century art, the artist's correspondence provides the narrative thread around which this study develops.
'Atlantic City,' Rebecca said. 'I don't know.'
 de felle primaire kleuren en chromaten die hij in Arles gebruikte, evolueerden naar halftonen als blauwgrijs, olijfgroen, roodbruin en oker."
Back when I met her, though, she was going through a period when she wore high heels all the time.
Along the lines of: anyone can do it, chin up, love, it's just puppet theatre for grown-ups.
An equally idiosyncratic choice of still-life theme was birds' nests, of which Van Gogh had assembled quite a collection.
So people made things of themselves.
In the process of copying The flowering plum tree, Van Gogh considerably exaggerated the background colour harmony of red sky, white blossom and green ground, producing flag-like horizontal bands.
And again I thought about the prices of the things I sold.
Maybe that was my innocence, that I truly believed I was a juvenile delinquent.
She looked at me, and I could tell that she felt differently about being blessed with catcher's mitts for hands.
I need you.'
"'She has psoriasis
Writing was a form of cannibalism.
 He painted a third building on a rather smaller scale, his own former home, the four-square, prosperous-looking Nuenen vicarage (ill. 21).
His mother smiled at me.
I'd found a farm for myself, for myself and for my jokes, and I'd continued to wallow in it.
The earth violet, the sower and the tree Prussian blue ...
In fact, although they never met, Van Gogh already knew of Anna Boch as the only female painter to belong to the Vingtistes.
 He either omitted to mention, or was himself unaware, that a furore had been caused by Van Gogh's paintings, which almost led to a duel at the opening between the Vingtiste Henri de Groux and Toulouse-Lautrec, who with the backing of Signac loyally came to the defence of Van Gogh's work.
'Did you like the statuette?'
In all the years she'd worked at the day clinic for the mentally ill, she found out one day, not a single patient had been cured.
Halfway through I discovered that I actually had nothing to say about Svevo, but I felt it would be impolite, on the day of the deadline, to notify the editor of that fact.
It could also exist right here in the present, with hands sticky with dough and sweat that trickled down everywhere, because the oven had turned her little kitchen into a hothouse.
'They're like catcher's mitts,' Rebecca said.
I ordered another cocktail of the month, no longer caring whether they were drinkable or not.
In late 1881, having spent a year with his parents in the village of Etten, Van Gogh decided to try his fortunes living independently as an artist in The Hague.
Providing a bright, buttery yellow note in the foreground is an entirely different kind of book, a dog-eared pocket-size paperback, Emile Zola's La Joie de vivre, which had been published the year before.
'I have ugly hands,' she said.
It was my wife's idea to have the chimney cleaned.
"I had to at least try it out
But once again Van Gogh chose to ignore this picturesque opportunity.
Sometimes I said things just to see how people reacted.
He'd reached the age where he could only tolerate having other people around when they listened to him.
But I said: 'Could I go into therapy with you?'
Then I hung up and paced the room for a couple of hours.
Inscribing it to his old teacher Mauve, who had recently died, he asked Theo to give the painting to his newly-widowed cousin, an indication of how strongly memories of Holland were flooding back now that he had left Paris.
That June, Van Gogh made a number of paintings of them, trying to find an equivalence in his brushwork to the extraordinary growth patterns they formed (ill. 136).
I thought about a sponge being rubbed back and forth over a leg and my wife saying: 'If you think I'm a stone you have to roll uphill every day, then maybe I should go away.'
I looked at the plastic bag.
She laughed loudly.
In 1888 little evidence remained of Arles's past glories as a Greek port, although there were vestiges of its time as chief Roman trading post on the Domitian Way.
I knew that if a bag of oranges cost two dollars, he would charge me eight.
I work there.
If there was more to it than nice stories, I'd never found out about it.
I barely know her, I don't even know her last name.'
At horizon level, interest is provided by dense foliage and the red and pink roofs and church tower of Arles, which Van Gogh described enticingly to Bernard as 'that coquettish little town of the pretty women!'
 zei ik, 'met Robert."
Paradoxically, out of this ordered seclusion, surrounded by inactive fellow patients suffering from all manner of psychiatric conditions, Van Gogh produced a stream of impassioned, urgent and unrestrained canvases, in which nature is infused with a vital pulse and rhythmic life force.
'Dear sir, two years ago at Christmas time I sent you my book.
At much the same time, he began experimenting with the more controlled pointillism that had been demonstrated publicly for the first time in 1886 by Georges Seurat (1859-1891) and Paul Signac 1863-1935).
She had good ideas sometimes.
In the preparatory drawing (ill. 78) for View of Arles with irises in the foreground, whose structure was established with a faint pencil grid, the pen marks are bold and emphatic.
Van Gogh sought guidance from his cousin by marriage Anton Mauve (1838-1888), an accomplished Hague School rural painter and watercolourist.
I felt myself growing nauseous.
Reality may be unknowable, but it's not that unknowable.
Van Gogh's stated determination to 'do some good' in the world, to serve some purpose, derived from his upbringing in a country parsonage and from the uplifting moral example of his parents.
Her pack of cigarettes was empty.
Her face reminded me of a troll.
I pulled off another loose piece of skin.
By mid-April Van Gogh seems to have been able to come and go as he pleased again, returning to the countryside to capture the orchards in bloom, a theme that had preoccupied him the previous year.
It is certainly true to say that in Arles Van Gogh at last discovered a way of imbuing his work with that passion he had spoken of in 1880, a passion that had been kept somewhat in check in recent months.
We focused on the cookies.
The message of his remarkable body of paintings is affirmative and celebratory.
Emile Bernard was a not insignificant or disinterested player on the sidelines.
That's it.'
Rebecca slid a little box across the table.
I didn't see any reason to change my tactics now.
It involved concentrating all the topographical and architectural information -- church steeples, factory chimneys, trains and railway lines -- into a narrow band at horizon level, to which the eye is drawn by convergent diagonals, while giving over the larger foreground area to plant life.
The model has a somewhat lost, faraway look, and her pale complexion speaks of the unhealthy atmosphere and artifice of city life.
But I guess I was wrong about that.'
'That's good.'
She seemed about to eat everything in the shop.
Van Gogh would eventually occupy two rooms, one to sleep in and another as a studio.
This was his second attempt at interpreting this essentially poetic subject. He dispenses with figures and is unabashed about melding reality, fantasy and memory: the hills are the Alpilles as he could see them from his room, but the village nestling beneath them, with its elegant church steeple, is wholly imaginary, replete with the artist's growing nostalgia for the north.
She smiled.
That night she swore a few times that she would never again live with a woman who chain-smoked, or a man who chain-smoked either, for that matter.
The night my wife stayed at my place, that time the female chainsmoker had caused a minor blaze, I asked her the next morning: 'Is this part of the therapy?'
The two shared a common commitment to peasant painting and to a realist and rural vision, which they kept stoked by accumulating images from recent as well as past art.
I would also be quite pleased to bring it to you, if only you would tell me where your offices are located.'
'And please, not a filthy limousine, make it sort of a new one.'
He was clearly still more confident of his strengths as a painter of nature than as a figure painter.
He was to remain there for the next eighteen months.
But viewed from the twenty-first century, Van Gogh's works and words urge against such an approach.
He would be seen there with the still dominant Neo-Impressionists, but also with several Impressionists.
The question of 'abstract' canvases undoubtedly fuelled their discussions.
'What?'
During his brief decade of artistic activity Van Gogh achieved a technical facility and a level of productivity that few other artists have equalled.
What was consistent about the works Van Gogh chose to exhibit was the emphasis on landscape and the omission of portraiture.
His study of road menders in the main street of Saint-Rémy is exceptional (ill. 154).
He was thinking at the time about the primitive representations of the labours of the fields found in old farmers' almanacs.
Rebecca shrugged, and lit yet another cigarette.
Paradoxically -- for today they are so dark as to be barely legible -- these still life studies were also experiments in colour.
'Yes,' she'd said, 'you too.'
I'm usually very good at inventing names.
Sometimes, when I had to go out to dinner with my wife's colleagues, I'd buy about a dozen tickets for everyone.
To conjure these specific emotions, he chose a clashing colour contrast of red and green.
I pointed at the plastic bag.
Pleased with his achievement, Van Gogh promptly painted an equally forceful replica.
And now, over to Robert G. Mehlman for tomorrow's weather.
He maintained that only when he had produced his first representation of his material surroundings, his chair, his table and window, with convincing perspective had he begun to believe in the possibility of becoming a painter .
He started laughing.
It happens to the best of us.'
One of Van Gogh's most positive relationships at this time was with fellow painter Anthon van Rappard (1858-1892), whom he had first met in Brussels in 1880.
>From here it was easy for him to reach the surrounding countryside on foot, and initially, for want of models, landscape and still life provided his main source of subject matter.
This loneliness, too, had a smell: the smell of grenadine cocktails that have stood on the table too long and gone sour.
He longed for the chance to do his portrait, not only to capture his distinguished, razor-thin features but to convey these more romantic ideas in paint.
'Is it about someone who's very lonely?'
Dead, yet still romantic.
With both Bernard and Gauguin Van Gogh went on to have a fruitful exchange of ideas through correspondence.
If I paid the minimum monthly charge on all my credit cards, I would have to live to the age of four hundred and seventy in order to pay it all back, I'd figured that out.
I couldn't even come up with a quote, even though I'm usually ready with a quote.
He promised to pass the message along, but he didn't think it would help much.
She was no sooner seated than she began rummaging through her purse, then lit a cigarette.
I'm calling about the package I need to give you.'
My wife sometimes said: 'If you were only as good at counting your money as you are at counting words.'
A weatherman was, of course, also a very lonely person.
That's why my wife-to-be came to spend the night at my place.
And then I added: 'Who isn't?' And I laughed charmingly.
To combat this and galvanise his new peers, he tried to establish a cooperative social network.
By the time she arrived, I'd stopped expecting her.
For the writer, life was a tainted mussel.
'They almost all complained about their wives, how their wives let the place go to pot.'
Especially if the weatherman wrote back.
After I had received my first-quarter revenues statement, called the publishing house.
My wife had said any number of times: 'You should go there sometime, it's wonderful,' but I'd always told her: 'No, it's not my kind of thing, I don't like dinosaurs.'
Thus was Van Gogh's hard-won momentum as an artist abruptly curtailed by his first severe mental breakdown, and his dreams for the convivial studio of the south were severely compromised by the onset of a debilitating disease.
Other ugly body parts, okay, but not hands.
Van Gogh's more conscious searching after a robust, virile style was a development that, by the autumn, began to disturb Theo.
How will Mehlman react if we let him run into The Empty Vessel?
Although personally I felt that death was no reason to go around looking grumpy.
