Development Cooperation Prize for thesis on Cape township
No place to feel at home
"""Baie dank!"" (""many thanks!,"" ed.), writes Sarah Meys in the acknowledgements of her thesis."
These words in Afrikaans are directed at the community workers and inhabitants of Wesbank, a post-apartheid township near Cape Town.
Meys stayed there for three months with a VLIR travel grant to investigate how at home the Wesbankers feel in their district.
Or, in the language of thesis titles: to study the 'people-place relationships at the neighbourhood level.'
The jury of the Development Cooperation Prize found the results of Meys' research very successful: the geographer is one of three Leuven laureates awarded with EUR 1,250.
When the Mandela government proposed its Reconstruction and Development Programme in 1994 - an ambitious plan to put an end to the social injustice of the apartheid years - housing for the poor was one of the pillars.
"""The intentions were undoubtedly good,"" says Meys, ""but the costs appeared to be a serious obstacle."
The government brought in private companies to build the new districts such as Wesbank, and the contractors put in as little money as possible into as many houses as possible.
The residences are of a depressing quality: walls in bare breezeblock, cement floors and corrugated-metal roofs, all without any insulation.
"The living conditions correspond with this: mould and poor air quality lead to tuberculosis and other lung diseases."""
To be able to get a house in Wesbank, the applicant must earn under a set income limit.
"Meys: ""That has led to the absurd situation that some people have given up their jobs to make it onto the waiting list."
Officially, Wesbank now has 25,000 inhabitants, of whom 95% earn less than EUR 200 per month.
The location of the district offers the inhabitants few possibilities to improve the situation.
Wesbank was built on 'dumping grounds' - destined for black people during the apartheid regime - which lie far from the employment opportunities offered in Cape Town.
Income segregation has replaced race segregation.
"The result is about the same."""
In the summer of 2005, Meys, together with a fellow student, left for three months in Cape Town.
"""In the first month it was not simple to make contact with the people of Wesbank."
But when we did volunteer work in the local hospital, we got to know community workers, and they introduced us to a few inhabitants.
In interviews, we asked them how they felt in the district, and how they got along with the neighbours.
We showed them photos of places in Wesbank, and asked them if they had positive or negative feelings.
From the interviews, it appeared that only a small minority of the inhabitants really felt at home in the neighbourhood.
I am not happy here, but we have no choice and must make the best of it, was the reaction that I received the most.
"They consider Wesbank as a place where they can survive, not as a home."""
"For the inhabitants, it is not only difficult to obtain any economic success
"Meys: ""When the district was built, too few meeting places and recreation facilities were provided."
Nevertheless, these are very important for promoting mutual understanding in a district where so many cultures, languages, and origins are found next to one another.
References to race are scrupulously avoided after apartheid, but other stigmas having to do with behaviour or origin have taken their place.
"For example, I talked with a woman who could not accept that her Xhosa neighbours made fires in the garden."""
Lack of safety is by far the greatest problem in Wesbank.
"Meys: ""The few meeting places are often unusable because they are too dangerous."
Most of the playgrounds are pools of mud with rusty equipment, where youth congregate to snort drugs.
Two gangs, the 26s and the 28s, rule in Wesbank and constantly fight for their territory.
They operate shebeens, illegal bars where drugs are sold.
Almost everybody that we interviewed has come into contact with one of the gangs at least once: having been themselves mugged, a family member murdered....
The local tabloid, Die Son, is also full of crime stories.
When we lived there, it was relatively peaceful because one of the more important gang leaders had just been arrested.
"But I have heard that researchers have been advised against coming to Wesbank next year, because the situation has become too dangerous."""
"The dominance of violence in the township also appears in a role play with children: ""One of the community workers organized a drama class a few times per week."
I replaced her in class one afternoon, and I asked the children - between the ages of eight and sixteen - to depict typical township situations.
One of the skits took place in a taxi-bus.
One boy was the driver, another had to collect the fare, a third was a passenger who did not appear to have any money in his pockets.
This last boy was pushed off the bus and robbed of whatever possession that he had on him.
"Other scenes concerned household violence, poverty, drug use, and the gangs, which clearly have a great attraction for the children."""
"According to Meys, lessons can be learned from Wesbank's situation for large-scale social housing projects in the South: ""I have not really worked out that recommendation in detail in my thesis, but it is clear that social, economic, and spatial aspects must receive more attention in planning."
"A house must be more than only a roof above one's head."""
Solidarity Fund SOLFA endeavours to improve health and self-sufficiency
"""Many African women return home with a fistula, and without their baby"""
Professor Dirk De Ridder, from the urology department at the University Hospitals Leuven, left in September for a two-week mission in Congolese Kisantu.
There he operated on women who, as a result of problematic deliveries, had developed fistulas.
"""Just about the entire survival economy of Africa relies upon women."
With the help of the Solidarity Fund for African Women, we want to improve their self-sufficiency.
"It is tremendously important therefore that they return to good health."""
The Solidarity Fund for African Women, SOLFA, was established in 2006 through Partnership & Academic Development at the initiative of dermatologist and K.U.Leuven alumna Lorrie Vandeginste.
During a number of trips to Central Africa, she had observed that women are often the first victims of political instability and ingrained violence.
She approached a number of doctors at the University Hospitals Leuven, among whom was urologist Dirk De Ridder, and together they set up SOLFA.
"De Ridder: ""In many African countries, the economy is just about completely in the hands of women."
SOLFA seeks to increase the self-sufficiency of women in African survival economies, particularly through projects of micro-mutuality and micro-financing.
"For instance, we help in the purchase of cassava grinders so they can set up small businesses and regularly set aside some money for health care, because it is essential that these women, on whom so many families depend, remain healthy."""
"""SOLFA looks out for the patient when she is sick."
It is not our intention to finance a whole range of medical services, but to really help a certain group of patients through, for example, our fistula project.
"Medical support comes from Leuven Medical Support (LMS), an association of volunteers from the University Hospitals Leuven responsible for a number of humanitarian projects and with whom we closely collaborate."""
"""Urogenital fistulas are abnormal connections between the bladder and the vagina through which fluids constantly flow into the vagina."
Typically, these fistulas result from problematic child delivery, when a woman has a pelvis that is too small or the child a head that is too large.
"In similar situations in Belgium, we perform a Caesarean section, but in Africa that is not always possible. Women often wait as long as possible before being treated, because the procedure is so costly
"When labour lasts a long time, the baby's head is squeezed against the pubic bone and fistulas can develop."""
The results can be disastrous for mother and child.
"Professor De Ridder: ""The women often return home with a fistula but no baby."
They become incontinent, and, because of the urine loss and its accompanying odour, they end up more and more at the fringe of society.
"They are not allowed to participate in religious ceremonies. They are forbidden to ride in the local taxis. Their husbands leave them. In short, they have nothing left."""
"""SOLFA, along with LMS, wanted to help at least some of these women in Central Africa."
The positive side of this story is that the fistula surgery to restore continence is rather simple and successful.
Unfortunately, these women rarely have the financial means to pay for it.
We decided upon Kisantu in the Congo, because LMS is already active there.
During our first visit in May, we discussed our plans with the local health and development authorities.
Afterwards various local people made our intentions known in the area: in hospitals, in the churches, and on radio.
Twenty-three women were selected whom we would treat on our second visit.
"More were impossible. We had only seven days for operations, and each patient meant one hospital bed that would be occupied for two weeks."""
In mid September, Professor De Ridder travelled to the Congo with a small medical team.
"""Just about all the women I saw there had had a Caesarean section."
This means that they did in fact arrive at a hospital or clinic, but for the most part too late.
"Just about all of their babies were stillborn, and most of the women had been in labour for about two days."""
"""I operated on these women in a rudimentary operating room."
Afterwards, they had to remain in the hospital for about two weeks.
At the same time, we trained the local doctors and nurses to handle this type of surgery on their own.
"Following our visit, they were already able to perform these operations on simple fistulas and arrange for appropriate post-operative care."""
"""We then took the two women who had recovered and invited them to 'publicize' our health programme."
"On the local television and radio stations, we explained in clear and simple language what a fistula was, and what to do about it
"""We are now making plans for a new visit next year to train the local healthcare workers."
At the same time, we want to insure continuity by reinforcing and strengthening collaboration with other health care agencies in the region.
"In Kinshasa, for example, a good hundred kilometres from Kisantu, a Belgian colleague is busy with a similar fistula project with which we would like to collaborate more effectively."""
Promising synergy between sport and development cooperation
Sport for a better world
Sport is Ronaldinho, hooligans, health, commerce, competition, organisation, science, relaxation, call it what you want.
Sport is many things.
But would you spontaneously add 'development cooperation' to this list?
We wouldn't.
But Professor Yves Vanden Auweele would.
He is one of the editors of the book Sport and Development.
"""It is indeed a fairly new link,"" says Vanden Auweele."
"""Sport and development have only been spoken of in the same breath for about ten years, and even now the link is still not obvious for everyone."
You must situate the connection within the sphere of Sport+ and of +Sport activities.
"The first term aims at sports organisations that realise that they can reach wider goals with their work than only sporting goals, while the second is the field of action of NGOs, who realise that sport can be an especially strong means with which to reach their development goals."""
Conflict without weapons
In recent years, a number of projects have been set up aiming at a combined development of and through sport, nationally but also in a larger UN or EU connection.
"""However, useful instruments of evaluation were still missing."
An academic contribution was thus needed.
"This is now beginning to get off the ground."""
"""The link between sport and development cooperation is indeed fairly new, but it is actually not strange."
Sport is among the very few human activities capable of mobilising large groups of people, transcending all national, economic, religious, linguistic, and other borders.
Thus, if you succeed in coupling other activities with it, you immediate reach many people.
That is the basic thought.
"But the concrete realisation of this, naturally, is not always so simple."""
"""Those who wish to couple sport together with development work aim at diverse spheres."
First, there is the large domain of peace.
Sport is a regulated conflict.
You work with strict rules, and you submit yourself to the decision of a referee, even if you think that the opponent is wrong.
"If you can introduce this attitude to a large segment of the population, then you break through the automatic recourse to weapons, which still exists in many groups in developing countries."""
"""Second, sport, like no other activity, encourages social integration, also of various cultures."
Sport transcends prejudices based on origin, colour, religion, and so on, and creates the platform for cooperatively striving toward a goal.
Thus, that really helps to encourage communities.
Moreover, sports require material structures.
"Very often you note that these become the tangible core of communities, of integrated population groups who earlier were absolutely no group."""
"""And third, sport can also really contribute to the avoidance of risky behaviour in the field of health."
If you take part in a competition, you, for instance, engage in a minimum of hygiene and maintain a respect for others.
You take care of your body.
The trainer will encourage and motivate his team to this end, and thus help encourage an attitude of discipline and fair play.
If they can do that on a sport field, then perhaps they will also do that in their private lives, whereby, for example, risky sexual behaviour can be reduced.
Through this, you also create the idea of the willingness to listen.
"If this is present in the area of sports, then that can probably be broadened to other social spheres."""
Removing doubts
"Vanden Auweele also finds it very important that ethical questions concerning the link between sport and development cooperation be posed: ""Thus, we must be concerned that the negative aspects of sport might also be transferred to developing countries, for example, certain financial aberrations, or the question of hooliganism, and so on."""
"""It is also clear that this field must be evaluated: does the coupling actually have a positive consequence?"
And how do you measure that?
Can you demonstrate a connection between, let me pick something, a decreasing rate of HIV and increased participation in sport?
It seems that a well-described relation between these two is certainly one of the most industrious manners for removing any doubts concerning the sense of coupling between sport and development help.
"This evaluation is the field of academics."""
Research group for Creativity, Humour and Imagery in Language
"""Do not consider us as the joke bin of the university"""
These are only a few of the hundreds of Dummheitsausdrücke that Professor Kurt Feyaerts, senior lecturer in German linguistics, collected when he was carrying out his doctoral research.
Since 2003, Feyaerts has continued his study of the humorous and creative use of language through a research group in the Subfaculty of Linguistics: CHIL - Creativity, Humor and Imagery in Language.
From now on, this group will also cooperate with other research disciplines in the just-established Centre for Humour Studies.
"As of this academic year, the research is also branching out into the curriculum: the third year of the bachelor's programme in linguistics and literature will offer an elective course: ""Humour and creativity in language""."
A lecturer in German linguistics who studies humour: isn't this a contradictio in terminis?
"Says Feyaerts: ""I know, the Germans have the reputation for having no sense of humour, but I am in a good position to negate that cliché."
Not only do they have a rich tradition of political satire, they are, for example, quite adept at thinking up neologisms whereby they humorously designate their own social stereotypes.
So we find that, after the hype surrounding the Mantafahrer (a man who drives an Opel Manta) in the 1990s, an entire joke-culture sprung up around the stereotype of ein Warmduscher (a man who takes a warm shower): a man who is seen as going too far with comfort and control, which is the opposite, so to say, of a macho man.
"There are websites with lengthy lists of variants of this, such as Benzinpreisvergleicher, (a man who compares petrol prices), Comicsockenträger (a man who wears funny socks), Frauenversteher (a man who understands women), Acht-stundenschläfer (a man who sleeps eight hours), Zahnarztterminverschieber (a man who changes his dentist appointments), and so on."""
"""For my doctoral research, I was in search of German expressions for stupidity, and I came to the conclusion that people are extremely creative in the abuse of their fellow man (laughs)."
On the internet and in all sorts of lexica, I collected hundreds of expressions.
Then the time came to discover a lexical-semantic and cognitive pattern in these.
In our research group, we are essentially doing the same thing, but from a wider perspective.
"We are studying what lexical-semantic, but also what morphological and syntactic systems lay hidden behind humour and other forms of creative language use, such as figures of speech and neologisms."""
"""Although these can be gleaned everywhere, such utterances have been ignored far too long by linguistics, partially because they are difficult to objectivise."
Thus, the existing corpora of spoken-language use scarcely contain any material that you can qualify as 'conversational humour'.
"Thus, you can rightly wonder just how far these corpora are representative for 'the' use of spoken language."""
Verbal trump cards
"""Your brain is so minute, Baldrick, that if a hungry cannibal cracked your head open, there wouldn't be enough to cover a small water biscuit."""
The better gibes of the comic character Blackadder constitute a part of the research material of Geert Brône from CHIL.
"He is working on a dissertation on the cognitive construction of verbal humour: ""I study, for instance, interactional forms of humour, wherein people attempt to trump each other linguistically."
An example that has become classic is a dialogue between the French king Charles the Bald and the Irish philosopher John Scotus.
Charles asked him: 'What separates an Irishman from a fool?'
To which Scotus answered: 'Just this table.'
"The second speaker reinterprets the sentence of the first speaker to his own advantage: the context offers him the chance to use literally that which was intended figuratively."""
"""The relevance of the analyses of such utterances goes further than the phenomenon of humour."
"They make you aware of the flexibility and exploitability of the meaning and structure in everyday language."""
In for a laugh
Is a research group that keeps itself busy with humour taken, well, au sérieux?
"Says Feyaerts: ""Well yes, there will always be people who find our research to be trivial, because the material is not serious."
Then again, others think that we are a sort of joke bin of the university, where you can come knocking in search of a good joke.
"Let me be clear: that's not what we are."""
"Brône: ""Even at linguistic conferences, you see the participants chuckling to themselves when a lecture on humour shows up on the programme: now we're in for a laugh!"
"Naturally, this illusion is punctured (laughs)."""
"""But actually, we have no reason to complain."
Most of our fellow linguists indeed recognise that we are busy with worthwhile linguistic research.
In Leuven, we have certainly received the necessary credit right from the beginning.
When I went around in 2003 with plans to establish the group, I took a glance at the organisation charts of other Belgian universities.
No research group concerning humour seemed to exist.
I was very pleased that there seemed to be place for one in Leuven.
This academic year, we are going one step further.
"Our research is branching out into education: there will be an elective course in the third year of the bachelor's programme in linguistics and literature: 'Humour and creativity in language.'"""
New interdisciplinary Centre for Humour Studies
"""Naturally, humour studies is not limited to linguistics,"" says Professor Feyaerts."
"""We are also working with various other departments."
With a colleague from German Liguistics, Anke Gilleir, for example, we have carried out a study of a hundred years of satire and cabaret in Germany.
Further, there are concrete plans to set up research with experimental psychologists concerning the thought processes people use to process and evaluate humour.
To give a formal structure to such forms of interdisciplinary cooperation, I have established the Centre for Humour Studies together with my colleague Johan Verberckmoes.
"This is now in its beginning phase."""
"""The intention is to create a forum for all the researchers - also outside of the Humanities - who, in one manner or another, work with humour."
The row concerning the Danish cartoons has demonstrated that a thorough reflection upon humour is no luxury.
The members of the centre will regularly gather to get acquainted with each other's methodologies, and then to form collective research goals.
These can range from co-publications to the organisation of study days and conferences.
"Leuven is certainly in the running to host the 2010 conference of the International Society for Humour Studies - an institute in our field."""
And if Leuven actually gets that conference, then in a couple of years you can decide if the humour specialists are also Comicsockenträger.
Caroline Nijs (42), social-cultural staff worker at Pangaea
Champagne at 5:30 in the morning
#NAAM?
"""Well, I don't know anymore."
I called my parents, and they also couldn't tell me.
I can indeed remember that, as a teenager, I decided that I would do a year of volunteer work in a developing country before I took up a career.
"That came to nothing, but my present function is indeed funded through subsidies for development cooperation (laughs)."""
#NAAM?
"""I think that passion is very important."
I hate resignation, the shirking from responsibility, those offices in which telephone operators only forward your calls, or send you on a wild goose chase from office to office.
I always try to answer the questions I get, or at least to refer to the correct person in the correct instance.
"I think that you can only find satisfaction in your work if you go for it, and that is true for all jobs: from the cleaning staff to the head manager."""
#NAAM?
"""The birth of my children."
Champagne never tasted so good to me as it did shortly after the birth of my first child, Elise, at 5:30 a.m.
When I had my son Mattias, everyone - the nurses, the midwife, the gynaecologist - was guessing his weight.
At birth, he weighed five kilograms!
"I was happy that I had put such a sturdy little he-man in the world."""
#NAAM?
"""The move from student administration - my former job - to Pangaea."
I was changed very much as a person by working here.
Contact with other cultures makes you question your own norms and values.
When I just started here, for example, I had little understanding for African women who had left their children behind to study in Leuven.
"Now I understand the situation within which they made that choice, precisely in the interests of those children."""
#NAAM?
"""Last year, I studied Swahili, and I would love to learn another foreign language, Arabic for example."
"Next to that, I would also love more quality time with my family and friends."""
#NAAM?
"""Humour is very important: smiling is healthy - that's scientifically proven."
"Sometimes humour helps to solve conflicts: people who do not handle criticism well are more open to a remark if you formulate it with a joke."""
#NAAM?
"""An African student once introduced me to another African student with the words: 'This is Caroline Nijs."
She's a white African.'
"I found that a beautiful compliment."""
#NAAM?
"""I really don't regret anything."
If I could do everything over again, I might make a few different choices, but I am happy that I have ended up at Pangaea.
"There has never been a day that I woke up with the thought: oh no, I've got to go to work."""
International students give K.U.Leuven overall good evaluation
A more than encouraging barometer
"""Is everybody happy?!"""
With these three words, a rock star has enough to organize a public satisfaction survey.
A university wanting to investigate the satisfaction level of its international student public should approach this somewhat more thoroughly.
With an International Student Barometer, for example.
"""We wanted to know how the international students perceive our university,"" says Professor Mart Buekers, internationalization coordinator."
"""And for an extensive range of elements: from the quality of the courses to the living-quality of the city."
All these aspects are in the International Student Barometer, which is an instrument of I-Graduate, a research service for higher education.
The great advantage of the ISB is that you receive a benchmark: in each case our results are placed next to the result of ninety-one other educational institutions participating in the barometer.
"Among these are included elite universities from around the world, and thus it is also a very meaning benchmark."""
The entire international student population - undergraduate, graduate, and postgraduate - received an invitation by mail to take part in the research.
With 1749 respondents - more than 60% - Leuven obtained one of the highest response scores.
"Buekers: ""The spread of participants across countries and faculties also accurately reflected our registration figures - that thus makes the data relevant."""
The first part of the barometer gauges the how and why of the choice of destination.
For 80% of the respondents, K.U.Leuven was the first choice.
"""A realistic score,"" Buekers finds."
"""Students often compose a preference list, and traditionally, they still place an American or British university at the top."
But Europe's momentum is clearly on the upswing.
For us, location is thus certainly a trump card: Belgium is the political heart of Europe and an ideal base for exploring Europe.
Still, 85% of the respondents chose according to the institution, and only 15% according to the country.
"The majority of the students thus consciously chose the quality of what we offer."""
That is also evident from another question in the barometer: what was the criteria for the students' choices?
The quality of education and research, alongside institutional reputation, comprise the top three.
Employment and friends in the host country are less important.
The barometer also asked the students who or what helped them decide upon their choice of educational institution.
Agents, advertising, and parents seemed to play a relatively small role.
The most important advisors are friends, alumni, and the university's Web site.
"Buekers: ""We have recently done a lot of work on the Web site."
"From the English homepage, for instance, one click gives you access to the complete catalogue of our English-language master's programmes, and via the doctoral schools, openings for doctoral students are represented in overview."""
"""The importance of friends and alumni is not new: word-of-mouth advertising has always played a large role in recruiting."
That is also not surprising: you expect trustworthy information from friends, while brochures usually sing praises to the university.
Can you take advantage of that?
Only indirectly, I think, by offering people what they have a right to: a good education in a good social setting.
If you have a delicious meal in a cosy restaurant, then you go on to spread the word.
"Well, if our international students are satisfied with the mental food that they have received, we also automatically get a strong recruiting story."""
And that's certainly going well, or so it appears from another result of the barometer: 89% of the respondents would recommend others to study at K.U.Leuven.
Satisfaction with priorities
Satisfaction with how quickly registration requests were handled lies above the benchmark in almost every group.
"Buekers: ""Only in the post-initial master's programmes is the processing time somewhat longer, and satisfaction a bit lower."
That has to do with the credentials evaluation: for this group, we must verify visas and diplomas.
"Certainly this must be done more quickly for the visa, but here we are imbedded in a larger framework, and need to seek a solution together with the government."""
Next, the students were asked what they liked upon arrival in Leuven, and what they found less appealing.
"Buekers: ""E-mail and internet access score high: indeed, we act quickly on this."
Registration, the housing service, and the formal welcome also receive a good score.
The item host friends received the lowest score.
I think that we are warm and friendly to our international guests, but that we often don't go much deeper than the surface.
"The buddy system - which has been running now for a few years - is certainly a step in the right direction, but above all we must still see to it that we reach the doctoral students better."""
And if we are talking about studying per se, the respondents report that expert lecturers, class content, and the library are their priorities.
"Buekers: ""It is wonderful to determine that they are also most satisfied with precisely these topics."
And moreover, for instance, research opportunities and the level of English receive scores between 'satisfied' and 'very satisfied.'
The results were lower for work experience and career advice: we do not seem sufficiently active with life after school.
However, while we are doing this interview, the student society Ekonomika is holding a Career Day. K.U.Leuven also organizes a yearly university-wide Job Day.
"Still, in the future we must pay even more attention to guiding the careers of our students."""
And how do they find the quality of life?
"Buekers: ""Recently, I spoke with an international student who told me that Leuven is 'too good to be true.'"
The barometer confirmed this social quality: for almost every topic, we sit above the benchmark.
"Security and internet access - the two topics that they find most important - receive the highest satisfaction numbers, and transportation and sports facilities also score well."""
"""Concerning support from the university, the barometer has good news for the International Office: satisfaction with their service is quite a bit above the benchmark."
Student administration, the medical centre, and catering also receive a great score: international students clearly appreciate the Alma student restaurants.
"Then again, the score for student unions is below the benchmark, probably because these are not as well worked-out here as they are in the Anglo-Saxon countries."""
"Buekers: ""With our over-all score, we settle into the top five of the benchmark, and for a number of topics even in the top three."
It is thus not surprising that we are happy with these results.
But they must motivate us to improve upon the weaker points that came to light through the investigation.
"Not surprisingly then, we intend to repeat this investigation regularly and to see if we are progressing within these parameters."""
Engineering prize for thesis on cranial reconstruction
"""Our technique has already helped a patient"""
For their engineering thesis, Leen Lenaerts and Katrien Baeck developed a computer procedure for the automated design of cranial implants.
Together, they won first place at the Engineering Awards organized by KVIV (Royal Flemish Society of Engineers).
These award the most socially relevant theses of graduating bio- and civil engineers from every university in Flanders.
Alongside technological knowledge, communication skills and scientific dedication play a role.
With their thesis, entitled 'Automated design of a defect-filling implant for cranioplasty,' Leen and Katrien won first place.
"""The design of a cranial implant begins with a CT-scan,"" Katrien explains."
"""The cranial contours are filtered from the scan data, and serve as the basis for the implant."""
Because the form of the skull is not known around the defect, the interior and exterior surfaces of the skull are reconstructed in comparison with a database of healthy skulls.
"""We use an active shape model for this,"" Leen explains."
"""That is an intelligent statistical model that can determine, based on a set of healthy skulls, the average anatomic form of a skull and can determine mode shapes."
"Thanks to these data, the model can reconstruct a damaged skull according to the characteristics that bear the closest resemblance to the skull in question."""
Based on the obtained cranial surfaces and the detection of the interjacent fracture zone, the computer model of the entire implant emerges.
By means of this model, a press mould is reproduced, out of which the polymethyl metacrylate (PMMA) implant is pressed.
Finally, the sterilized implant is implanted and fixed to the skull with the help of small screws and mounting plates.
"""Thanks to our procedure, it is possible for the first time to automatically and preoperatively design defect-filling implants for small and large defects in both cranial hemispheres,"" Leen emphasises."
"""That is revolutionary because earlier the surgeon had to shape a PMMA implant manually during the operation, a method that was very labour intensive and not always equally effective."
Therefore, to reduce costs, covering rather than filling implants were often used, which drastically raises the risk of infection.
Moreover, for unilateral defects - defects in one cranial hemisphere - the intact cranial hemisphere is mirrored on the defective hemisphere, an approach that is not always effective because no skull is perfectly symmetrical.
"With the assistance of our computer procedure, all these difficulties can now be avoided."""
To investigate the quality of the designed implants, the researchers have simulated a number of defects in healthy skulls.
"""After we ran the computerized procedure for these skulls, the anatomic reconstruction of our implants appeared to deviate no more than 1 to 1.5 mm from the intact skulls - a result that is remarkably lower than with earlier procedures."""
"""In addition, we have also checked the force-resistance of the skulls,"" says Katrien."
"""This is the first time that the sturdiness of cranial implants has been researched, and our design seems to be more than sufficient."""
"The computer procedure was immediately applied with success: ""In a ten-year-old girl, the cranial bone was partially reabsorbed when doctors had removed and replaced a section of bone after an accident,"" Leen says."
"""At Leuven University Hospital, a defect-filling implant, designed with our procedure, was implanted in her."""
A critical look at evolutionary psychiatry
Madness continues to make a fool out of evolution
"""The shoddy work of natural selection is most visible in the human susceptibility to all sorts of diseases,"" postdoctoral researcher Pieter Adriaens (Institute of Philosophy) writes in the introduction to his book Het nut van waanzin (The use of madness)."
With a critical stance, he looks at the attempts of evolutionary psychiatry to find a place for mental illnesses within Darwin's picture.
With its invisible hand, natural selection preserves genetic variations that are useful to organisms in their drive to survive and reproduce.
But since the beginning of written history, we find descriptions of mental illnesses that are at first sight anything but useful.
Why aren't the genes that code for these sicknesses 'deselected,' and why do these selfsame disorders continue to plague us?
It is a paradox that has kept evolutionary psychiatry busy now for over fifty years.
Beginning in the 1950s, various solutions for the paradox were put forth.
Thus, the 'mismatch' model holds that some mental illness emerge in the discrepancy between our current and our ancestral environment.
"Adriaens: ""This theory is particularly invoked to explain phobias: in the ancestral environment, some fears offered a survival advantage that they no longer have."
This can explain why we are more easily frightened by spiders, heights, and enclosed spaces than by cars and weapons, even though today they are more dangerous in our lifeworld.
"But the explanatory power of the model is limited: there is still a difference between a healthy fear and a serious phobia, and the theory offers absolutely no clarification for more severe disorders."""
"The 'adaptationist' model has the same problem: ""That model says that mental illnesses still have an important function today."
Thus, for example, depression would be a manner of coping with the loss of a hierarchical position.
That makes sense to a certain degree: a symptom like grief can be a manner of asking for help.
"But the model cannot explain other symptoms like sleeplessness and extreme feelings of guilt: true clinical depression seems to me to have little function."""
Other evolutionary psychiatrists believe in the 'trade-off' model.
"Adriaens: ""Thus, the English psychiatrist David Horrobin saw a link between schizophrenia and creativity."
Small mutations in the genetic code of the fat metabolism of our ancestors could have ensured an enormous increase in brain volume and mental capacity.
These same mutations could also lie at the origin of schizophrenia.
Horrobin thus sees sickness as a side-effect, the price that humanity has paid for its intelligence and creativity.
This is an intriguing theory, but the connection is fiercely contested: the results of investigations into creativity among schizophrenic patients contradict one another.
"There is more evidence against than for the model."""
"Adriaens has more faith to the 'polygenic selection-mutation' model: ""That is an atypical model in evolutionary psychiatry because it says that mental illnesses offer absolutely no advantage: they are harmful dysfunctions that have always been harmful."
The hereditary material responsible for the activity of our brain is very vulnerable to mutations.
The effect of each of these mutations apart is, in itself, so small that they cannot be deselected.
"But when the mutation load increases in descendents, for whatever reason, the chance increases for deviant cognitive and behaviour patterns - and the chance of a mental illness."""
In evolutionary psychiatry, Adriaens contends, there is a drive towards romanticization and speculation that often surpasses the facts.
In his book's last chapter, he even asks if schizophrenia involves a paradox.
Can it indeed be true that this illness is an attack on reproductive success and that it, nevertheless, has ravaged us for thousands of years?
"Adriaens: ""For example, the first proposition is unnuanced, to say the least."
It applies above all to men - studies show that female patients are rather successful in building up happy and fruitful lives, and thus in having children.
It is also doubtful if the illness has existed long enough to have been controlled and regulated by the process of natural selection.
In written history, we certainly find no description of schizophrenia as we now know the disorder.
"But for other mental illnesses, such as manic-depression, we do."""
"""The enormous heterogeneity of the patient population is also striking."
Take a glance at any psychiatric hospital in the world, and you will see: no two schizophrenic patients resemble one another concerning the nature and severity of the symptoms - and sometimes there are even no minimal similarities.
I think that schizophrenia seems to be an artefact, a term of embarrassment covering different disorders for which psychiatrists are at a loss.
In my book, I thus argue that we should divide up the syndrome into more categories, and then catalogue the genes better.
"Currently, it makes no sense at all to provide all sorts of evolutionary explanations for the illness."""
In conclusion, what if we place a question mark after the title of Adriaen's book: The use of madness?
"""That can be a comforting thought for patients with a mental illness, and I would not like to take away this illusion, but to be honest, I fear that there is no use to be found for mental illnesses."""
Gerard Kleisterlee is approachable, friendly, and even a bit timid. Not exactly the qualities one would expect to find in the big boss of a multinational with 165,000 employees.
The Philips CEO is surrounded by security staff and, as he acknowledges, has no taste for the meticulously planned agenda that he is forced to follow.
Kleisterlee is no icon, certainly not the way his predecessors Timmer and Boonstra were, who played such prominent roles in Dutch industry circles.
And he isn't looking for this kind of exposure either.
"He has had to guide Philips through very difficult times
Perhaps it is the hallmark of real corporate leaders that they perceive such difficult times as challenges to make the company profitable once again.
And that is exactly what Kleisterlee has achieved.
"""A journalist once called me 'top man by chance.'"
And there is something to that.
Without a bit of chance you don't get a job like this.
It certainly wasn't written in the stars that I would one day become the top boss at Philips.
"I came to the corporation in 1974 and have played a number of roles
I have always tried to make myself comfortable in whatever function I have, whether that's at a company site in China or in the components division at home.
In my work I have always tried to be aware of the big picture, even when I was much lower down on the leadership ladder.
"That big picture, working for one Philips rather than a collection of little corporate islands, is what I find absolutely essential."""
Kleisterlee has no problem acknowledging that he is sometimes a bit bashful.
"""Yes, I guess that is sometimes the case, especially when I have to walk into a room where I don't know anyone. But that's part of my job."
I sometimes have the feeling of 'What am I doing here?'
"After a few minutes, it all passes of course
Actually I don't find this problematic.
"It makes you a bit more approachable than the guys with the hard-boiled looks."""
This timid man, however, has had to make some tough decisions.
"When he took over, Philips had 220,000 employees
Half of this reduction came from firing people.
"""You have to make decisions. That's your job, certainly at this level."
The consequences of your decisions can be tough, but the future of the company is paramount.
"That doesn't mean that I am a hard man, though."""
"""Of course there is a big gap between someone in my position and, say, a factory worker at a Philips site in Brazil."
But I still find it tremendously important to know a lot of people in the company personally and to talk with them.
You do have to take into account that not everyone feels comfortable chatting with the Big Boss!
People ask themselves: 'Can I really say that?' or 'Will he accept it when I tell him this or that?'
You have to be aware of that.
If you are not continually conscious of the fact that people don't always tell people in my position what is really on their minds, you will end up not getting any sound information at all. Then you become isolated and look down from your office high-up in the Philips Tower in Amsterdam upon a very misrepresented reality.
When that happens, it is time to step down because you are no longer able to really lead your organisation.
"Fortunately, I still regularly hear: 'Gerard, my man, you are doing that all wrong!'"""
Faculty honorary doctorate for architect Manuel de Solŕ-Morales.
The city as consensus machine
The Spanish architect Manuel de Solŕ-Morales has built an international reputation by often solving the most complicated urban problems with a simple intervention.
The results of his efforts in Leuven are both visible and tangible: thanks to a project of de Solŕ-Morales, the Martelarenplein (Martyrs Square) is no longer a martyrdom for its various wayfarers.
On October 14, the Faculty of Applied Sciences conferred an honorary doctorate on de Solŕ-Morales.
It was Prof. Marcel Smets who contacted the Spanish architect for the project around the Leuven train station.
Smets was chief designer of the research group from the Department of Architecture that, from 1995-2000, drew up a master-plan for the whole of the station and its surroundings.
"De Solŕ-Morales: ""I was appointed the task of designing a plan for the Martelarenplein, the tunnel, the underground parking, and the De Lijn bus station."
The integrated effort - differing elements in one project - made it possible to better tune the various traffic streams, which was not possible in the existing situation.
In my view, the movement of pedestrians is always the most important and the most determining element.
For this reason we reserved a great deal of the square for pedestrians, and another part for taxis and buses.
"I think that the traffic situation is now clearer, and that traffic can find its way without too much confusion."""
"""It was decided very early that we should put a traffic tunnel under the square, and that we should work with two levels: one for the tunnel and a small section of the underground parking lot, and one for the combination of underground parking lot and the pedestrian path."
I spent a lot of time thinking about that parking lot.
I found it important to really integrate it into the life of the city.
"Parking lots are often nothing more than dark garages, but light streams into this one and you still have contact with the outside world."""
"De Solŕ-Morales has, in general, garnered high praise for his design, but here and there he also picks up some negative critique. ""I have received many remarks concerning the red brick of the bus station."
But we did think long and hard about the colour, and I myself am very satisfied with it.
It is an intense red, but that was also the intention.
That bus station is certainly an important building, and the red bricks give it the necessary power and présence.
"Otherwise, it would be nothing more than a bus shed."""
"The Forum Project took place over the last few months in de Solŕ-Morales' home city of Barcelona. It was a large international event with readings and activities on cultural diversity, sustainable development, and the preference for peace: ""I was given the task of composing an exhibition about the city."
My approach was contained within the title of the exposition: 'Cities, Corners'.
In cities you often find important and emblematic buildings on corners.
Just think of Gaudí's La Pedrela, the Michaelerplatz in Vienna, the Shizuoka Building in Tokyo, etc.
I also see the corner building as a metaphor for the city.
Corners bring together two different streets, two facades, two meanings, two cultures.
And I also see the city as a consensus machine that brings together people and their opinions, and forces them to find a consensus.
With his work, de Solŕ-Morales gives form and matter to this consensus.
"His effort is well described as urban acupuncture: ""Acupuncture implies that you grapple with a particular sickness by working on the central nervous system and not necessarily on the sore spot itself."
Seeing as how the city is an organized system just like the body, you can also bring about many changes by intervening strategically in one place.
In many of my projects the consequences of a particular transformation were more important than the transformation itself.
In Leuven this is certainly not the case, but even there you see consequences in other areas.
"If you bring about changes to the station square in Leuven, then you also work indirectly on the traffic on the ring road, the organization of bus traffic, the trade on the streets around the square, and so on."""
Leuven is not the only city that connects de Solŕ-Morales with Belgium.
"In the 1990s the Antwerp organization ""City on the Stream"" appointed him to the task of giving the Eilandje a new face."
In the end, there was no agreement with the city council, and the plans were abandoned after years of preparation.
The architect considers this episode a big disappointment, but, nevertheless, he is shortly returning to Antwerp.
"It was announced at the end of September that he will design ""the heart of Antwerp"": the second phase of the work on the canals, more specifically, the area around the Opera House and the Rooseveltplaats."
De Solŕ-Morales' plans were chosen over some other renowned architectural firms.
"This interview took place before the announcement was made, and, when asked about his chances, the architect remained guarded: ""Oh, I dare not say that I'll be chosen
"But the other architects in the competition are excellent colleagues, so you can be certain that it will be a good project (laughs)."""
PhD student designs alternative Braille display
Braille computer mouse guides the visually impaired in cyberspace
In order to provide the visually impaired with greater freedom of movement in cyberspace, the guide dog is getting extra help from a Braille mouse.
The device, an alternative to existing Braille displays, is the result of Tiene Nobels' doctoral research at the Department of Electrical Engineering.
On March 2 she presented the mouse at her doctoral thesis' defence.
"""A computer screen is actually just one way of displaying a computer's output,"" Nobels explains."
"""There are alternative means of representation - speech technology, for instance, which is also used by the sighted."
Specifically for the visually impaired there is a way of reading the information on the screen in Braille.
This does require extra hardware: a flat box that partly slides underneath the keyboard.
"At the front of the box there is a linear display on which the text on the screen appears in Braille."""
"""The Braille here is slightly different from classical Braille script with six points."
In order to facilitate translating the eight bits of a computer character, the Braille characters on the display line are made up of eight pins that can represent two values, just like computer bits: the pin can go up or stay down.
"That way you get the typical relief structure of Braille script."""
"""The mechanical movement of the pins is actually the result of an electrical voltage on a small component, an actuator."
The basic unit of such an actuator with a pin occurs 640 times in an 80 character display line (80 times 8).
"That is why a linear display can easily cost 12,500 euros."""
"""For conversion into Braille or speech you obviously also need software: a screenreader."
Unfortunately the decoding also has limitations.
Pictures and frames are often not accessible because they have no textual encoding.
When developing websites and the like, people generally do not think about accessibility for the visually impaired.
Exploring tables is also awkward for the visually impaired, because they cannot see the borders.
"Also there is still no very accurate way of moving vertically across the screen."""
The visually impaired never use a traditional mouse when working with a computer.
"Nobels: ""A mouse does not offer much to go by: if you can't check on it visually, it dances across the screen."
"Therefore, my Braille mouse is simply intended to represent the information that is on the screen: it is a Braille display in mouse format."""
"""The basis of this research was the problem of designing a display with fewer actuators."
"In addition, friction remains the vital condition for reading Braille: in normal reading the visually impaired person must move his fingertips over the characters to feel the relief."""
"""My solution to meeting the two requirements was to have the line of text move under your finger."
A moving disc was the result: the model became a kind of mouse.
The user reads the characters formed on a moving disc through a small reading window in the mouse.
The big advantage here is that only four actuators are needed to control the positions of the pins.
Once they have been read, the characters are deleted.
Obviously the actuators do have to work much faster.
"Hence the speed of character generation, which the reader can also set using a thumb-wheel, depends on the actuators' capacity."""
"""The construction of the disc in the Braille mouse is still very labour intensive."
Automation will be difficult since the market is very limited: the number of visually impaired people is not large - fortunately enough.
"This limited market remains a problem: it explains the high prices of a host of applications for the visually impaired."""
"""Because sighted people have this ingrained idea that a computer must have a screen, they think that a computer just creates extra obstacles for the visually impaired."
But the visually impaired mainly 'see' the chances that computers offer them.
The quantity of information they have available, for example, has increased even more spectacularly than for sighted people.
"Because Braille books or audio books - more or less the only sources for the visually impaired before the computer era - were and still are a rarity compared with the shelves full of books for sighted people."""
Child abuse leaves traces in the brain
At present, only about ten to twenty percent of child abuse cases can actually be proven, according to Peter Adriaenssens, child psychiatrist at the University Hospitals and director of the Centre on Child Abuse and Neglect.
He explains that recent findings in child psychiatry will help to detect child abuse more effectively.
"Adriaenssens: ""In recent years there has been enormous progress in the area of neurobiological trauma research."
We now know that the stress which accompanies a trauma is not only psychological in nature but also leaves objective traces in the brain.
"An increased dosage of the stress hormone cortisol has a demonstrable influence on the brain's development, resulting in memory problems and concentration difficulties in children and disrupting development during puberty."""
"""These findings are extremely important for interviews with abused children."
Until recently, a child's behaviour during such an interview was compared with the behaviour of an average child.
An abused child often has great difficulty indicating exactly when or where the abuse took place.
The lack of detail in such a story often reflects badly on the veracity of the testimony.
Now neurobiology has demonstrated that precisely these memory problems might indicate previous abuse.
This is extremely important, especially now that we have a law governing video interviews with children.
"This law stipulates that in every case where a complaint of abuse is under investigation, the children must be interviewed in a studio by recognized police psychologists."""
The neurobiological traces of child abuse cannot yet be used as evidence.
"Adriaenssens: ""We are still at the research phase."
"Apart from a few questionnaires, there are not yet any clinical instruments that might be used in legal investigations."""
"""The biggest problem is the lack of norms for comparison."
We should be able to collect information about a control group of non-abused children, but that is ethically rather problematic.
With adults, you can inform them and ask if they would consent to participate in your research, but with children you cannot just put them under the scanner or administer test medication.
"Nonetheless, within five years we hope to have some useful clinical instruments."""
"""We have no genuine democracies"""
Since 1996, historian and political philosopher Quentin Skinner has been Regius Professor of Modern History at the University of Cambridge.
He specializes in Early Modern European history, in particular the culture of the Renaissance, and the political philosophy of the 17th century.
Skinner has written influential books about political thinkers such as Hobbes and Machiavelli, and together with his colleagues in the so-called 'Cambridge School', he has changed the way in which classical texts are read.
Skinner argues that by restoring the writings of political thinkers to their lost historical and social contexts, we are able to situate and recover unfamiliar concepts - or interpretations of concepts - which we no longer recognize, but which might enrich latter-day debate.
"Skinner himself has drawn another definition of political freedom from history: ""Today, we speak of freedom when our laws do not hinder us."
This is a liberal, negative definition of freedom.
But in republican political theory, which goes back to Machiavelli's Discorsi, you find another - and in my view more interesting - vision of freedom.
He says that we can only be free if we live in a free state, where the people govern themselves.
Republicanism sees freedom as a state of independence, the opposite of slavery: you can never be free if you are dependent upon the good will of a sovereign.
Even if you are not actually hampered in going about your business, you are still not free.
For the very notion that we are dependent has as it were a corrupting effect on us: it makes flatterers of us, and we dare not speak freely.
"To avoid this, we must make our own laws."""
"""The republican concept of freedom is therefore very demanding: it demands that we take to the political arena ourselves."
If we take this view, it follows that we must thoroughly reconsider our methods of representation.
Everyone talks about democracy, but we have not really got any genuine democracies.
"Democracy means literally that people are governed by people, whereas people are currently governed by representatives of people."""
"""The debate about political freedom really is overwhelmingly dominated by the neoliberal idiom."
I think it's a pity that our vocabulary in discussing such important political questions is so limited.
I don't feel an active political vocation myself.
Which is just as well: I'd be a dictator, since I know how it's done (laughs).
No, I have neither the time nor the talent for it.
"But I do think it a pity that there is such a wide gulf between academics and lawmakers."""
Ten years after the genocide that claimed over 700,000 lives, Rwanda is looking for ways to heal the wounds.
As part of its search, the Rwandan ministry of justice found its way to K.U.Leuven's office of continuing education.
They forwarded the request to mediation specialist Diana Evers, who travelled to Rwanda for three weeks to train local staff.
Evers studied sociology in Leuven and has worked for ten years as a mediator in divorce cases and other domestic conflicts.
She gives trainings in this area and is in charge of the practical sections for the continuing education programme in family mediation.
Obviously, the conflict in Rwanda is of a different magnitude.
"Evers: ""Of course, before I went I tried to learn something about the situation there, but I could not really prepare myself."
I work with conflicts every day, but that genocide was such an unimaginably huge conflict.
I wondered if the theories concerning communication and needs which I had applied here would even work there.
How would people with their own traditions of mediation look on a white woman who comes and tells them how it's supposed to be done?
I did have some moments of doubt, but I decided to present those questions and uncertainties to the students at the very beginning of the course.
"And it turned out to be the right approach: they don't like the sort of arrogance with which some Westerners come and boss them around."""
Along with three local judges, Evers co-taught a course in mediation and conciliation for a group of about thirty well-educated trainers.
"Evers: ""The aim is to have them pass on these mediation techniques to the local mediators chosen by the people themselves, since certain crimes must first be discussed by three mediators and only then by a justice of the peace, if necessary."
It is also in keeping with tradition: they solve problems among themselves.
The Rwandan people are more open to mediation than we are, because for them conflict resolution is the only way to safeguard the social network.
"We often look for the solution that is best for us
The problem with that is they have difficulty in putting forward individual needs.
"When I gave them a chance to do that during the course, they were really quite surprised."""
"""The Rwandans place the perpetrators of the genocide into four categories, the highest being those with real responsibility while the lowest category contains those who merely carry out orders."
They decided that only the highest category would be imprisoned and given an official trial.
All the others would appear before a gacaca - a popular tribunal that could be compared with the South-African truth commissions.
Those sessions are quite impressive to watch.
The accused relates all the details of his crime and the victims tell how they experienced it.
Then the accused asks the forgiveness of the village.
Sometimes they are given alternative punishments, something for the benefit of the community.
This kind of far-reaching forgiveness is very difficult for us to imagine.
"We could learn a great deal from the Rwandans."""
Of course, a victim who has lost family members will be reluctant to offer forgiveness to the murderers.
"Evers: ""The job of the local trainers is to prepare the confrontation between the two sides."
They do this by stressing the fact that the perpetrators were obeying orders from their superiors, and that everyone would have done the same in their place.
The way this is done is rather unusual.
The trainer invites the villagers to sit in a circle, then asks them to make the most beautiful drawing they can.
Each villager explains to his neighbour why the drawing is so beautiful, and the neighbour gives a score and gets to keep the drawing.
They always give each other's drawings high scores.
Finally the trainer asks everyone to tear their drawing into four pieces, which they do.
"And when the trainer asks them why they ripped up such beautiful drawings their answer is: that was the order we were given..."""
Negative emotions during pregnancy influence development until adolescence
The amount of anxiety a mother experiences during pregnancy influences how her children process information.
Thus concludes Maarten Mennes of the Health Psychology Research Group and the Department of Paediatric Neurology in his doctoral research.
More than twenty years ago, Mennes's supervisor Professor Bea Van den Bergh distributed a questionnaire among pregnant women.
"Statements such as ""I am calm"" and ""I am nervous,"" coupled with a scale of values, were intended to give a picture of the extent to which the women experienced negative emotions."
Subsequently, Van den Bergh examined the children during regular developmental intervals.
Among other things, she showed that attention problems and hyperactivity in children can partially be explained by how anxious the mother was during her pregnancy.
The measurements were carried out in three periods of the pregnancy.
"Mennes: ""I stepped into the study when the children turned fifteen."
"My research results show that the feelings of anxiety experienced especially in the first measurement period - twelve till twenty-two weeks - influenced the child."""
For his doctoral research, Mennes studied both the behaviour and the brain activity of the participants.
The results are remarkable.
The children of mothers who were anxious during their pregnancy encountered difficulties when asked to think up a strategy to optimally perform in a task.
If a strategy was imposed on them, no problems arose.
"""We asked the twenty-year-olds from the research group, for example, to press a button whenever a square appeared on their computer screen."
If a circle appeared, they were not to press it.
This task presented absolutely no problems.
Namely: the squares and circles gave the strategy that had to be followed.
A task that seemed more difficult was to combine several jobs.
Thus, we asked the participants to look for a large number of objects on a large sheet and to count sounds at the same time.
Children of anxious pregnant mothers appeared to have difficulties in finding the right strategy for combining both tasks.
"Either they paid too much attention to the objects on the sheet, or to the sounds."""
"The researchers concluded that the negative emotions a mother experiences during pregnancy could cause subtle deviations in the brain development of the foetus: ""These changes form the basis for the displayed effect on the later development of the child."
Moreover, the research shows that the effects are long lasting and do not disappear as the child becomes older.
However, we hypothesize that the measured functions are controlled by a brain area that develops until about age twenty-five.
"One hypothesis, which must still be researched, is that children of anxious mothers can regain their lost ground as soon as the brain area in question is fully developed."""
"Even though the link between anxiety during pregnancy and the development of the child does not lead to serious disorders, Mennes wants to emphasize that the findings must be taken into account: ""Too much pressure at work for pregnant women, for instance, can lead to anxiety and stress, and thus possibly influence the child negatively for life."
"Further research is needed to see if reducing pressure at work during pregnancy, improving the support a pregnant woman receives from her surroundings, and relaxation exercises can reduce the effects."""
Project supports African universities in developing international dimension
"""Not only the university profits from internationalization"""
With the Edulink-AUDIS project, coordinated by the University of Padua (Italy), European and African universities are collaborating on strengthening the international dimension of African universities.
In the project's first phase, the issues to be addressed were determined.
In its second phase, organized by co-promoter Martine Dekoninck of K.U.Leuven's International Office, the universities are now tackling these issues through seminars and internships.
"Professor Pierpaolo Faggi from the University of Padua coordinates the Edulink-AUDIS project: ""Edulink is a programme that supports cooperation projects between African and European universities."
The project we are now working on is called AUDIS: African Universities International Dimension Strengthening.
We assume that a stronger international position of African universities is positive for Africa and Europe.
"Each partner of the Coimbra Group, a group of ten European universities, has thus invited its African partner to join the project."""
"""In the first phase, last December, we met in Saint-Louis, Senegal, to determine the primary issues concerning internationalization."
These turned out to be funding, mobility, management, and language.
Seminars on these themes were held June 4-6, 2008, in Leuven.
"Two representatives from each African university were present, who were responsible respectively for the academic and administrative levels of internationalization."""
Professor Mitiku Haile is president of Ethiopia's Mekelle University.
"""During the seminars, we heard success stories, but we also heard where things went wrong, making this a very open forum."
"You can also talk about your weak points, and together look at how these can be improved."""
"""Of the four themes, naturally the search for funds is and always remains very important for every university,"" puts in Jean Zida."
He is the director of international cooperation of the Université de Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso.
"""But much could also happen concerning mobility."
Not only by exchanging students and professors between Africa and Europe, but a professor also need not limit him or herself to one university within Africa.
"If many students benefit from it, it is simpler if the professor moves, for instance."""
"""Additionally, internal and external management is also very important,"" Haile chimes in."
"""Students and staff must clearly know what a specific curriculum contains, how an exchange runs...."
Management also has a practical side, such as housing.
And this is connected with the image of the university.
The world must receive a clear image of what our university stands for and what somebody stands to gain when choosing us.
"At our university, for example, you can experience that it is possible to work without the stress that is so typical of Europe."""
"""Language is very important,"" says Zida."
"""There needs to be a basis for communication."
But this means wanting to understand each other's language.
Language is part of your culture and the person who you are.
These are things that you can never surrender.
"In the story of the Tower of Babel, the different languages were put forth as a punishment, but it is also an enormous enrichment."""
After the seminars in Leuven follows a series of one-week internships at two different European universities.
Haile is going to the Universities of Bologna and Padua.
"""We already have good relations with Leuven, and now I want to experience what the differences are at a Mediterranean university."""
Zida is going to Groningen and Louvain-la-Neuve.
Then, everybody comes back together again to provisionally evaluate the project.
"Our interviewees are positive: ""You cannot ignore globalization, and exchange is a part of that,"" says Zida."
"""By ending up in a totally different environment, you learn that there are also other ways of looking at things."
"Your own view becomes so much larger."""
"""And it is really reciprocal,"" stresses Haile."
"""The students who come to us are not coming to 'take.'"
For instance, a small group of researchers has gathered together money to plant trees.
And another group has provided bee hives, so that the women of that area can now sell organic honey.
Not only the university profits from internationalization.
You get people with a broad vision, who are creative, and who dare to think.
"These are people who can change many things!"""
Conservation project for one of the university's crown jewels
Unique bible manuscript gets face-lift and public baptism
"""Overwhelming, sublime, of absolutely the highest quality...."""
Professor Jan Van der Stock speaks in superlatives about the beautifully illustrated Anjou Bible.
Currently, a preservation project is preparing the fourteenth-century manuscript for its introduction to the general public.
"""The manuscript originated in the beginning of the fourteenth century at the court of Robert I of Anjou, king of Napels,"" recounts Van der Stock, scientific co-ordinator of the project."
"""The history of the manuscript - full of court intrigue - reads as a Hollywood film script."""
The manuscript was intended as a wedding present from Robert to his heir-apparent Andreas, who was murdered before he had the crown placed on his head.
The bible continued to circulate among royals, until around the beginning of the sixteenth century when it ended up at Arras College in Leuven, via the Bishop of Arras.
In 1970, the Major Seminary of Mechelen deposited the manuscript at the Maurits Sabbe Library of the Theology Faculty, K.U.Leuven.
Since then, it has become one of the highlights of the university's patrimony, a status that was confirmed at the beginning of this year when it was added to the Flemish Community's cultural heritage list.
Alongside its historical importance, the manuscript also - and primarily - has art-historical value.
The 338 folios of the manuscript contain two whole-page miniatures and more than 160 initial decorations and smaller miniatures alluding to the biblical texts and occurrences in the royal house.
They are the work of many Neapolitan artists.
"Van der Stock: ""The opening miniature is the most overwhelming: an allegory representing the king among the virtues ascribed to him."
But in truth, all its miniatures are sublime, of absolutely the highest quality.
"The text itself was also certainly important: Christoffel Plantijn (influential printer and publisher, ed.) used the Anjou Bible as one of the basic texts for his Polyglot Bible."""
"Whoever is still not convinced of the manuscript's value by this encomium might be impressed by its financial translation: ""The manuscript is valued at EUR 15 million."
It is safely stored in a reading room in the Faculty of Theology's library, which is in fact a safe.
Naturally, one can't simply request the manuscript 'just to see it.'
"Sometimes researchers with the necessary documents get the opportunity to study it."""
Despite the richness of the manuscript, it has almost never been displayed in public. And it was never decently examined, because the circumstances in which it was stored were far from ideal.
"Van der Stock: ""In the beginning of the twentieth century, it was regrettably poorly re-bound."
The covers are too tight, making the manuscript difficult to open.
"Moreover, the parchment is folded and the pigments and the gold-leaf contain lacunae."""
"Thus, a preservation project has recently been undertaken: ""The practical execution is in the hands of our Illuminare Study Centre for Miniature Art, which is working in collaboration with the Royal Institute for Artistic Heritage."
"Specialist Dr. Lieve Watteeuw from Illuminare will remove the folios from the covers one by one, and then scan, examine and clean them."""
"""And next, the pictorial layers, the gold-leaf, and the ink will be stabilized using the most advanced techniques."
High-resolution photographs will digitize the manuscript.
Finally, the folios will get a new preservation cover.
"The cost for the project - EUR 80,000 - is funded by the InBev-Baillet Latour Foundation."""
"In 2011, the general public will get the chance to see the miniatures in flesh and blood - or better: in parchment and pigment: ""We are planning an exhibition in Leuven's new Museum M."
The most beautiful miniatures will be shown, and via a touch screen, visitors will be able to leaf through a complete digital version.
"Naturally, the rich and exciting history of the manuscript will feature as well."""
Developments within the project can be followed via the Web site of Illuminare.
Energy expert Claude Mandil receives honorary doctorate
"""Without quick action, we are headed straight for an energy crisis"""
As the former director of the International Energy Agency, Claude Mandil used to call into Brussels frequently.
But on May 14, his first visit to Leuven was to receive an honorary doctorate from the Science, Engineering, and Technology Group.
"""I have earned diplomas at engineering schools, but I do not have a university degree."
"Recognition from Leuven, not surprisingly, is a great pleasure."""
"""Why didn't you come here with public transportation?,"" asks Mandil when he hears that we came to the Champs-Elysées by car."
After all, high automobile CO2 emissions are a thorn in his side.
"""We all know that energy consumption in the world is problematic, but all too easily we see that as a concern for our neighbours and cast away our glance,"" says Mandil."
"""No - I am not free of blame either."
"According to my wife, I lecture eloquently in my speeches about energy conservation, but I am still the last to turn off the lights at home."""
The leaders of Western states and governments are sticking their heads in the sand, thinks Mandil, who attended the G8 conferences at Gleneagles, Saint Petersburg, and Heiligendamm.
"""The problem is not so much that we will exhaust our energy supplies."
Technological progress will shield us from that.
Thirty years ago we were proud as peacocks when we brought up petroleum in the North Sea from 200 meters.
Now we can drill more than 2,000 meters deep.
Undoubtedly, technology will lead us even deeper, to new levels.
"However, it is a fact that current investment in energy production is not matching our quickly increasing consumption."""
But what is really worrying Mandil is the climatological limit that we are running up against.
"""The greenhouse effect is urgently compelling us to emit less CO2 and thus to use less petroleum."
Moreover: if we don't do that, then we are threatened with becoming even more dependent on an ever-shrinking number of suppliers - with all the consequences for energy prices.
Thus I did not agree with President Bush at all when he announced two years ago that we would have to wait patiently for the development of new technologies to find a solution for climate change.
Luckily, his discourse meanwhile has become completely different.
"For action is demanded quite immediately."""
Claude Mandil has stuck closely to the energy problem since the beginning of the 1980s.
"""When I worked in the cabinet of Prime Minister Mauroy in 1981, energy was one of my responsibilities."
I have not shaken that bug.
"After a five-year break with a French investment company, I ended up once again in the energy world, for instance as managing director of Gaz de France and as chair of the Institut Français du Pétrole."""
From February 2003 until his retirement in September last year, Mandil was the head of the International Energy Agency (IEA), headquartered in Paris.
This G8 think-tank, where around 190 energy experts from twenty-seven countries work, was born in the wake of the first oil crisis in 1973.
"""Oil prices are currently breaking all records, but there are still important differences with the situation then,"" says Mandil."
"""The crisis of 1973 was caused by actions taken by the Arabian oil-producing countries."
Today, objective, market-bound mechanisms are chasing the prices up.
Oil consumption in the world, especially the growth poles of China and India, is rising faster than investment in production.
"Another difference is that the average European, relatively speaking, spends much less on energy than in 1973 and thus, all in all, can continue to make ends meet without difficulties."""
For this reason some people dare to say that the high oil prices are even a blessing, because these will stimulate the development and use of other, more environmentally friendly energy sources.
"""I would not take that logic so far,"" says Mandil."
"""These price increases are an absolute disaster not only for rich but also for poor countries."
Moreover, there is still the question of whether the higher prices at the pump will decrease our oil consumption.
"I do not have that impression."""
Belgian sore spots
Nevertheless, if we do not change our pattern of energy consumption today or tomorrow, we are headed straight for an energy crisis, Mandil fears.
"""With its relatively limited CO2 emissions and diversified energy supply, Belgium belongs among the better pupils of the IEA."
Still, I also see three points where progress must be made.
Like all Europeans, the Belgians must deal with energy more efficiently.
I believe in the efficacy of the market, but stress at the same time the need for regulation.
All houses must be excellently insulated.
For household appliances, a maximum level of use must be imposed.
"And the automobile policy must be stricter."""
"""The two other sore spots are specific for Belgium."
I argue for the integration of the gas and electricity markets.
Concerning the deregulation of the market, it is a bad state of affairs that a small country like Belgium has no less than four regulators.
Finally, I would really mourn the closing of Belgian nuclear power stations, at least as long as they are safely managed.
"Leaving nuclear energy behind would lead to more air-borne CO2 and make Belgium more dependent on the gas supplier Russia."""
Just like all IEA countries, Belgium has a strategic oil supply in cases of need to guarantee the security of supply.
"Mandil: ""The USA only has raw petroleum in stock and no refined products."
They could have never imagined that a number of their largest refineries in Texas and Louisiana would lie closed for a month or two because of flooding.
Nevertheless, this happened in 2005 during the passage of Hurricane Katrina.
The European countries then rushed to help by releasing their raw oil onto the market.
"This was an exciting moment for me as director because, discounting the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, there had never been a transition to the use of the strategic reserve."""
Since September 1, Mandil's IEA chair has been occupied by Nobuo Tanaka from Japan.
What has Mandil advised his successor?
"""My most important tip is that he must always remember that the staff is the greatest treasure of the Agency."
"As director, he can ensure that his formidable team delivers good work and comes to the Agency gladly."""
Mandil himself intended to use his retirement by spending more time with his wife, five children, and his grandchildren.
"""On that score, I am only partially successful, because I am frequently invited to conferences and colloquia, and also to chairs in different boards of directors."
"What matters is that I can continue to put myself at service, and that I have the feeling that what I do is useful."""
Tempus project supports doctoral programme in Sarajevo and Banja Luka
K.U.Leuven is supporting the nascent doctoral programme in food technology in Bosnia-Herzegovina's universities.
"""It gives all participating institutions the chance to exchange ideas,"" says Professor Josse De Baerdemaeker from the Faculty of Bioscience Engineering and chair of the Arenberg Doctoral School for Science, Engineering, and Technology."
"""This is also interesting and useful for our university."""
Bosnia-Herzegovina has experienced hard times.
During the civil war, the industrial and academic worlds were as good as flattened.
Not surprisingly, the Universities of Sarajevo and Banja Luka jumped with enthusiasm onto the Tempus bandwagon, which devotes itself to expanding higher education and research through intensive cooperation in participating countries.
For the doctoral programme in food technology, six European universities have joined forces.
"""The Universities of Sarajevo and Banja Luka are in great need of strengthening their knowledge at the level of doctoral programmes,"" says De Baerdemaeker."
"""The participating universities are now thinking together about how doctoral research in the field of food technology can best be done, and organized most efficiently."""
Meanwhile, the cooperation has been running for two years and will be continued for yet another year.
"""At this moment, we are collecting together all the most important publications in the discipline."
"We are specifically looking for documentation and research material that is also directly relevant to industry in the region."""
A second aim is to give doctoral students from both universities experience in foreign laboratories.
"""That is difficult for many, because a majority of them have another job alongside their doctoral research at the university."
"For those who succeed in working abroad for a while, it is a perfect opportunity to gain experience and to take a different look at the research world."""
Josse De Baerdemaeker also finds the cooperative network crucial for K.U.Leuven.
"""This also expands our view."
"Our doctoral schools can only be the better for it."""
De Baerdemaeker is just as dedicated to these schools.
"""They are developing quickly and I can only applaud that."
We stress the importance of competencies and skills for our doctoral researchers.
They are very specifically focused for years on their research, which naturally is great, but at the same time we need to give them the chance to prepare decently for the business world and to gain experience in areas outside of research.
I certainly hammer away on that aspect of the doctoral programme - also for the food technology project in Sarajevo and Banja Luka.
"And I have the impression that they are integrating those ideas very well."""
Crystal ball in the making for surgeons
How well will patients still function after a knee or hip operation?
For doctors and surgeons, it is currently impossible to predict this accurately for the long term.
However, researchers in Leuven are now working on a crystal ball within the framework of a new chair.
Problems with the skeleton ideally demand treatment tailored to the patient.
"""Everyone has a certain body weight, the measurements of the bones differ from person to person, and the places where muscles join the bones are different, as is muscular strength."
"If doctors want to perform an optimal operation when they, for instance, insert a knee or hip prosthesis, then they should be able to tailor the planning and preparation for the operation to the patient,"" says Jos Vander Sloten of the Biomechanics and Engineering Design Section."
The professor is holder of the new Materialise Chair in Patient-specific and Image-based Biomechanics.
"""The intention is to develop biomechanical models enabling doctors to calculate what treatment would be most fitting for each individual orthopaedic patient."
"Such a model is a 'finite elements formulation,' and looks like a three-dimensional computer image of the skeleton."""
The development of this biomechanical model need not start from nothing.
"""We have built up almost ten years of experience in this domain,"" says Vander Sloten."
"""We want to make the model more patient-specific by introducing as many individual parameters as possible."
Skeletal measurements will be entered for each patient, as well as the rigidity and strength of the bone material, and the load on the bones.
Moreover, we know how the bone will react to mechanical stimuli.
"Bone is actually a living material that disappears if it is lightly loaded, such as in outer space, and grows as it is more heavily loaded."""
The researchers are basing the design of their biomechanical model on medical imaging information.
"""Through x-rays, but also more modern techniques such as computer tomography scans or magnetic resonance images, we learn how the insides of a patient look."
"We request the imaging material from the radiology services of the university, with whom we collaborate, and from the clinical network of our sponsor Materialise."""
Using the model that will come about through the means of the chair, doctors can compare different treatment techniques with each other and decide what would be best for the patient's long-term functionality.
"""If they have a biomechanical model, they can estimate how the bones will develop after the operation under the influence of forces or exertions,"" says Vander Sloten."
Still, the professor does not want to crow victory too early.
"""I fear that our crystal ball might never be completely finished."
For, the functional prediction depends on so many individual parameters and many pieces of the puzzle are still missing.
It is not possible to model the entire genome and all hormonal information by tomorrow.
"But we proceed step by step."""
With the financing of the chair - EUR 260,000 spread over four years - Materialise underlines the confidence that it is placing in the Biomechanics Section.
"""We have been working intensely with the university for eighteen years now,"" says Fried Vancraen, CEO of Materialise."
"""The chair expresses gratitude for this exchange and creates a framework for going forward."""
"""Materialise is active in different medical markets as a manufacturer of patient-specific products."
Our software makes it possible to plan surgical interventions and to develop the necessary implants and instruments for these.
Thus, Materialise provides software for half of the hearing aids that are tailored for an individual ear.
Around seven thousand oral implantologists use our software to plan operations based on CT images for each individual patient.
A similar system is currently being launched together with Biomet for the placement of knee implants.
"The chair's research gives Materialise the chance to further perfect its software and designs for implants."""
Multidisciplinary team receives prize in Boston
Students design a bacterium which gives medical treatment
In early November, twelve students defended the colours of K.U.Leuven at the fourth International Genetically Engineered Machines Jamboree competition in Boston.
They received a gold medal for their Dr. Coli, a bacterium which administers medication in line with the patient's requirements.
Synthetic biology is the biology of the future.
It is the branch of science which builds or adapts living cells for specific tasks.
For instance, bacteria can be developed which purify water or give off light at night.
Juggling with DNA blocks - BioBricks - in this way opens up infinite possibilities.
On 8 and 9 November, 84 student teams from all over the world gathered at MIT in Boston for the International Genetically Engineered Machines (iGEM) Jamboree.
Belgium was represented for the first time, with a team of twelve students from the faculties of Bioscience Engineering, Engineering and Science.
The students were accompanied by professors, assistants and doctoral students from Leuven's BioSCENTer, a platform created this spring which brings together all scientists conducting biological and biotechnological research within K.U.Leuven.
The students joined forces to develop Dr. Coli, a bacterium which administers medicines internally according to the patient's requirements.
We asked three students from the team exactly how it does this.
"Stefanie Roberfroid: ""Dr. Coli is a self-regulating bacterium."
The idea is that it receives a signal, for example from an infection, and then responds appropriately by producing a medicine.
"When it stops receiving the signal, in other words when the patient has recovered, it stops producing the medication and self-destructs."""
"Hanne Tytgat: ""Dr. Coli can be taken in various different ways."
It can be swallowed as a pill, but can also be used in yoghurt, for example.
Its big advantage is that it is only active where it needs to be and for as long as it needs to be.
"That means medication which really is tailored to the patient's needs."""
"""Dr. Coli - the name derives from E. coli, a bacterium found in the large intestine - has been developed for Crohn's disease, but in principle a bacterium can be developed for any disease."
"The type of medication which is produced will depend on the disease."""
Is Dr. Coli something for the near future, or is building with DNA blocks a mere pipedream at present?
"Stefanie: ""The project has not been completed yet - it is too big and complex."
"We have already obtained a lot of results, but a great deal of research is still needed."""
"Antoine Vandermeersch: ""Ethically, questions still remain about synthetic biology: what is possible, and what is permissible?"
"There are enormous possibilities, but we have to use them sensibly and judiciously."""
Professor Jared Diamond receives honorary doctorate
"""What are you waiting for?"
"Go have babies!"""
On 13 November, Professor Jared Diamond received an honorary doctorate from K.U.Leuven.
The American physiologist, biologist, geographer and sociologist is one of the most popular scientists in the world today.
In Leuven he entered into debate with around five hundred students about the future of human society.
"""Professor, you have studied the development and collapse of human societies. Tell us, would you still have children if you were twenty-five today?"" asked one female student at the end of the debate."
A hush descended in the hall, and Jared Diamond plucked at his beard for a moment.
"""If my wife agreed, I definitely would,"" said the professor, who is the father of twins."
"""Most of the people in this hall are between twenty and twenty-five."
What are you waiting for?
Go have babies!
But do it sensibly.
"It is your children and grandchildren who will have to solve the problems in fifty years' time."""
That one simple question and that one simple answer nicely sum up the discussion which had taken place in the aula.
The earth has a problem, and its name is the human, the only 'animal' capable of completely destroying itself.
Human societies come and go.
When a society disappears, it is usually to do with faulty decisions.
"""We shall be able to solve our problems, if we decide to do so!"""
Jared Diamond, a professor at the University of California, is one of the few scientists who in addition to his hundreds of scientific articles can also venture into popular writing without being taken less seriously as a result.
For his work Guns, Germs and Steel he even received the Pulitzer Prize in America.
Jared Diamond is also one of the few people who is at home in a range of diverse disciplines and can link them together in order to achieve a holistic vision, in this case about the human as the 'third chimpanzee' - in addition to the 'common' chimpanzee and the dwarf chimpanzee or bonobo, about human civilisations and the mechanisms that make them progress or implode.
Diamond's greatest achievement - a characteristic shared by all great scientists - is that he manages to reduce a problem to an extremely simple question.
He applies this method not just in his scientific articles, but in his popularising works too, and even on an autumnal Thursday afternoon in a question and answer session with students from a Belgian university.
Jared Diamond did not mince his words, regretted some of his country's actions as an American, but refused to comment when asked about political solutions or theories, preferring to stick to his areas of expertise.
"""Of course there are reasons for hope,"" said Professor Diamond, alluding to the new president of his country."
"""I am deliberately optimistic."
Eight years of bad decisions do not mean the end of the United States.
In terms of environmental awareness, I have noticed a shift over the last two to three years in the US which I would not have believed possible in such a short time.
There are positive signs, too.
"The air quality in California is better than it was forty years ago, many of Europe's rivers have fish in them again, which was also not the case back then, and the salmon stocks in Alaska are growing again."""
"""But when you consider that there are 6.7 billion people alive today and that the world population will have doubled yet again in the next 40 to 50 years, you have to keep your finger on the alarm button."
The problems that this entails are not insoluble, but they are definitely not easy either.
"Science can come up with solutions, but the political will needs to be there to change things!"""
The debate was fuelled by a barrage of questions.
Jared Diamond dug deep in his box of tricks, talking about the Brazilian economy, the bird population in New Guinea, the disappearance of amphibians on earth, the bankruptcy of Iceland, the fall of the Roman Empire, frogs which hatch out their eggs in their mouth, the drama of Easter Island, where humans eradicated themselves, why Australians have not domesticated kangaroos and koalas, human migrations after the last Ice Age, the great leap forwards which was primarily due to geographical factors and not in any way to differences between people, the cradle of our civilisation in the Middle East, and more specifically in present-day Iran, Iraq and Afghanistan, the decline of the Vikings, and so on.
Diamond is a gifted speaker and managed to forge the countless themes that he brought up in the space of an hour into a coherent vision.
Perhaps his greatest achievement is that he is so quick to absorb what his new surroundings have to offer him.
"""I spent years researching in New Guinea,"" he says."
"""I went there to study birds, then worked on nature conservation, and eventually started researching the societies of the different tribes."
A thousand languages are spoken in New Guinea, around a fifth of the languages recorded throughout the world.
You can imagine the linguistic problems it causes.
"It must be a real relief for a country like Belgium that only two languages are spoken here..."""
In The Third Chimpanzee Jared Diamond writes in detail about the tribes of New Guinea.
The previous generation lived in the Stone Age, but today's Papuans are modern people who can use computers and operate plans, he says.
This is the best evidence that the differences lie not in the people, but in the circumstances in which they live.
And perhaps that is the most important message that Jared Diamond has for us.
Every year, our university awards honorary doctorates to people of especial merit in scientific, social or cultural terms.
K.U.Leuven and UCL (Université Catholique de Louvain) have decided to celebrate their patron saints' days together in 2009 and issue the degree jointly.
This decision emphasises the two universities' desire to strengthen the collaboration between them.
On 2 February 2009, four distinguished people will receive the title of doctor honoris causa from the two universities.
The two Academic Boards have opted for the theme: 'multiculturalism, interculturality and diversity'.
Marjane Satrapi (Teheran, 1969) is an illustrator and graphic novelist.
She won over the hearts of the public with her graphic novel Persepolis.
In this autobiographical work, made into a film in 2007, she describes the different periods of the Iranian revolution, seen through the eyes of a young girl.
In a critical but humorous manner she uses the book to educate Western readers about Iran, arousing interest in and empathy for the country and its people.
At the same time, she debunks many of the myths about the Iranians and their culture.
Marjane Satrapi now lives in France.
Promoter: Mr Thierry Bellefroid, journalist associated with UCL.
Prof. Sari Nusseibeh (Damascus, 1949) is rector of Al-Quds University in Jerusalem.
He is known for his views on peace and dialogue in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Together with the Israeli politician Ami Ayalon, Sari Nusseibeh is co-author of the declaration The People's Voice.
On the principle of 'two people, two states', the authors call for a Palestinian state based on Israel's 1967 frontiers and for a compromise about the Palestinian right to return.
The aim of the declaration is to build up grass-roots support for a solution to the conflict.
Promoter: Prof. Helge Daniëls, Near Eastern Studies Unit.
Prof. Abdullahi Ahmed An-Na'im (Sudan, 1950) is professor at the School of Law of Emory University in Atlanta.
Between 1993 and 1995, he was director-general of the African department of Human Rights Watch.
Abdullahi Ahmed An-Na'im is regarded as one of the leading experts on human rights in Islam.
He rejects the idea that Islam and human rights are incompatible, and defends the position that the Muslim identity can be integrated with universal human rights.
In workshops on human rights, he has introduced people to the principles of human rights in various African and Arab countries.
His starting point is that human rights cannot be imposed from above with laws and formal rules if they are not supported from the bottom up by less educated people.
In a recent work, he examines the possibilities for reconciling Islam with the demands of the secular state.
Here too, he attempts to build bridges between what are regarded by some as conflicting viewpoints on how human societies should be organised.
Promoter: Prof. Marie-Claire Foblets, Institute for Foreigners Law and Anthropology of Law
Paolo Dall'Oglio (Rome, 1954) is an Italian Jesuit who cares deeply about faith, justice and truth.
In 1992, he founded a mixed ecumenical religious community in the monastery of Mar Musa el-Habashi to the north of Damascus, which had been abandoned for centuries.
The monastery of 'Saint Moses', Mar Musa in Arabic, is renowned for its hospitality and its involvement in dialogue with the Muslims.
The community aspires to bring about a positive relationship between Islam and Christianity.
The choice of Arabic as the language for everyday use and for the liturgical life of this ecumenical and international community is closely bound up with this purpose.
European Commission President Barroso speaks at conference in Leuven
"""Global Governance is being created now"""
On November 26, José Manuel Barroso, President of the European Commission, was a guest at an international conference organised by the Leuven Center for Global Governance Studies (CGGS).
Barroso said how pleased he was that the CGGS had been set up, and highlighted the major role played by K.U.Leuven in developing the European idea.
The Leuven Center for Global Governance Studies is an interdisciplinary research centre set up last year in the Human Sciences Group.
The centre's research focuses mainly on globalization, governance processes and multilateralism.
At the end of November the CGGS invited an impressive gathering of academics and policymakers to join a debate on the role of the European Union on the international stage.
"""Originally we had intended this as an inaugural conference"", says Professor Jan Wouters, director of the Centre."
"""However, we have now been operating for a year and a half and we have already organised about fifty conferences."
"Experience has shown that both policymakers and academics are in need of a neutral forum to bring together academic expertise and international practitioners on complex issues."""
Among other things, the international conference aimed to partly dispel the myth of a paralysed European Union.
"Wouters: ""Traditionally the EU is presented as a player that is only able to exert soft power, and then brings into play its diplomatic persuasiveness and development cooperation."
But the EU should not be underestimated.
Next to its central role in the international trade system and in the global instruments for climate change and its normative influence in many areas of economic regulation, it has developed its own security and defence dimensions and is setting up more and more military and civilian operations.
"This is not without a struggle, but particularly over the past ten to fifteen years the Union has become increasingly important in the context of global multilateral processes and organizations, as is demonstrated in our book on the partnership between the UN and the EU."""
Main speaker at the conference was José Manuel Barroso, the President of the European Commission.
"In his talk he had words of praise for K.U.Leuven: ""In my country, Portugal, 'Lovaina' (Portuguese for 'Leuven' - ed.) is one of the most prestigious names when we talk about universities."
If we look at the history of Europe, we see that Leuven has played an important role in the development of the European idea.
"So it is an honour for me to be a guest here."""
According to Barroso the current juncture, with the world financial crisis, is exceptionally important for the development of the idea of Global Governance.
"""I must congratulate the CGGS on the timing of this conference (laughs)."
You couldn't have chosen a better moment, just a week and a half after the Financial Summit in Washington.
"Because of the financial crisis we are now standing at the dawn of a new era for Global Governance, which is also becoming increasingly important as a mission for Europe: we have to devise answers to global problems on a worldwide scale."""
"""This is precisely why the international summit in Washington was so significant."
You could sense that history was in the making.
The leaders of over twenty very different world economic powers - from the US to Brazil and Indonesia, to Russia, South Africa, China and, of course, the European Union - demonstrated huge determination there.
In my view, this summit laid the foundations for a new form of Global Governance.
"I am convinced that, when the current global financial crisis is history, the books will say that this was the moment when Global Governance was created."""
In fact, Global Governance seems to be one of Barroso's pet subjects from his time as an academic.
"""I worked on this topic as a member of the academic world."
"In the 1990s, as a visiting professor at the University of Georgetown, I helped create the first international certificate in Globalization Studies."""
Development Cooperation Prizes: Combating desertification in Ethiopia
Every year, a number of students and young academics receive the Development Cooperation Prize for their final dissertation or publication.
This year, no fewer than five of the prize winners are from Leuven.
One of them is Nigussie Haregeweyn, who looked for a solution to sedimentation in irrigation reservoirs in his doctoral research.
Nigussie Haregeweyn (35) is a prize winner from Leuven, but one with Ethiopian roots.
He received a master's degree in soil science and water management from Alemaya University in Ethiopia.
In 2002 he moved from Mekelle University, where he was a lecturer, to K.U.Leuven, to spend four years working on his doctorate in the Physical and Regional Geography Research Group led by Professor Jean Poesen.
Nigussie's research formed part of the Zala Daget Project to tackle desertification in the Tigray Highlands in North Ethiopia, a cooperative venture between Belgium and Ethiopia financed by the Belgian organisation for University Development Cooperation (VLIR-UOS).
Under the title 'Reservoir Sedimentation in the North Ethiopian Highlands: assessment and modelling of controlling factors and impacts', Nigussie looked for a solution to the sedimentation in irrigation reservoirs, which is a common problem.
"""The north of Ethiopia is a dry area,"" he explains."
"""A lot of rain falls from June to September, but it is dry for the rest of the year."
To give the crop fields the water they need, numerous dams have been created with water reservoirs.
However, we are seeing increasingly rapid sedimentation in these reservoirs, which reduces their capacity.
The sediment also binds with nutrients which are needed for the crops upstream.
"This causes problems, because the farmers are not always in a position financially to compensate for this loss with fertilisers."""
Of the five hundred dams which were supposed to be built in the Tigray region in the period 1994-2003, only a tenth were finally realized.
Nigussie subjected thirteen of these reservoirs to a thorough study.
"""Nearly half the reservoirs displayed a high degree of sedimentation, as a result of which their durability is much lower than was initially expected."
We also discovered that the deposited sediment is much more fertile than the original soil.
Local farmers could use it to recover the surrounding fields and improve the fertility of the soil.
"This may be an option for rescuing the existing reservoirs without high costs."""
Nigussie hopes to be able to publicise his research more widely.
"""Increasing soil erosion and the associated sediment-related loss of nutrients is a hidden but serious problem."
Policy-makers and development organisations need to be aware of it.
"Hopefully, my research can help with this and offer solutions where necessary."""
What particularly surprised him in Belgium were the facilities at the university.
"""In Alemaya we did not have the facilities you find at K.U.Leuven."
The lecturers are far more available than at the university in Ethiopia.
"The 'teaching/learning' process is completely different here."""
He may have noticed that the students don't stop at just one drink when they go out, but Nigussie's main perception of Leuven is as a small, charming city with friendly people.
"""Leuven feels so familiar,"" he says."
"""During the time that I lived there, I made many friends."
I even suffered from homesickness when I had to move to Brussels, where I'm taking a course at the Royal Museum for Central Africa.
It was as if I had left my own home.
"Life in Brussels is completely different, but it's a fascinating experience."""
Even more than Leuven, Nigussie misses his home country, where the two loves of his life await him: his wife and daughter.
"""My daughter is 18 months old."
Now that I have a family, I suffer from homesickness far more.
I phone home twice a week, sometimes more.
"It depends on my stress levels,"" he says with a smile."
There were four other Leuven prize winners: the students Lutgart Lenaerts (in Ethiopia on a travel scholarship), Lara Ramaekers and Katrien Descheemaeker, and researcher Carla Oporto.
Frequent video game playing can be a predictor of reckless driving
Teenagers who often play video games in which they engage in fast or dangerous driving have a more favourable attitude towards reckless driving.
"One in three of the surveyed young people think that they will take risks on the road at least sometimes ""to make driving more fun."""
This has emerged from research by Kathleen Beullens of the School for Mass Communication Research at K.U.Leuven.
Accident figures show that people between the ages of 18 and 29 are at higher risk of dying in a road accident.
This fact prompted Kathleen Beullens to carry out research into possible causes and connections.
In 2005 she started a study of the influence of media on driving behaviour.
In the influential Journal of Adolescent Health, the first results have been published of a survey of 2,200 pupils in the fifth and sixth years of fifteen Flemish secondary schools.
"""There are two kinds of games,"" says Kathleen Beullens."
"""Racing games such as Gran Turismo, Ridge Racer and MotoGP challenge you to drive fast on racing tracks."
In drive'em up-games such as Carmageddon, Burnout and Need for Speed, you don't just go fast, you get extra points for reckless driving.
Over 40 percent of the young people in the survey play games of this kind several times a month, and a good 15 percent play as often as daily or several times a week.
"Looking at the personality characteristics of this group, they score above average on questions about sensation seeking and aggressiveness."""
The first phase of the research revealed a clear link between frequent playing and a favourable attitude towards fast and reckless driving.
The figures are similar for both types of games and for boys and girls - apart from the fact that boys play this type of game significantly more often.
The study does not offer a solution to the chicken and egg question: do young people play these games because they want to become road hogs?
Or does playing create or reinforce a tendency to reckless driving?
"""One thing is abundantly clear: there is a link."
This is an important conclusion in itself: by observing game playing behaviour, you can identify a group of young people with a significantly higher risk of dangerous driving.
"This means you can create specific prevention campaigns for this group."""
"""My research has also produced some other interesting figures: only one percent of the young people say 'I'll never speed'."
27.5 percent are planning to speed often, while 15.5 percent say that they will do so very often or all the time.
"Moreover, nearly one in three young people say they think they will take risks on the road at least sometimes, in order to make driving more fun."""
In the context of her research, Kathleen Beullens interviewed the same group of young people again two years later - by which time most of them had their driving licence and were using the roads.
"""The results are not yet cleared for publication."
But I can give a sneak preview: there's nothing in the second part of my research that contradicts the conclusions from the first phase.
However, my study is one of the first in this field, and there is still a long way to go.
"Thus experiments are needed to measure whether video games really do change attitudes or behaviour."""
