Tears, pain, hurt, and doubt Sorry, didn't see, wasn't me, didn't know
we passed through the meadows
hundreds of lives with a shot
the war is over the soldier
The bombs landed in their place.
of bodies, ours, and nothing
poised to leave once more.
of probable infinity and engulfed with distinction
The thing frees itself from the thread
now I miss, like the winnower the ear, the heel in my rear &amp,
trade the moment for one’s father’s watch –,
curls to what a cerebral lobe,
the calm begins to sink in
The sun shoots up and falls,
The humans: busy, pale, mute, behind glass.
and that this end, now or never,
Oh dear love. And I knew: tomorrow
out of his mouth. The bush became a tree
but above the chinking
what touches me
Everything goes on with endless dawdling, yammering, nagging,
he can tell you (but he doesn’t):
on strange birds
who row into the morning without a sound.
to look at
you all know magnets when you let them turn in a coil
and the lowly beast that on the great beast dances
succeed in coming between
Which I stole
must reach high, the horizon had emptied away –
body on fire: just one more sigh
this is still our own body
This is the era of just redemption
twinty o ye, nae doot,
where does love go to when she disappears
and depart from my past time
which was awkward
snipped off. Who says has that far-off answer.
on the softish underbelly, unself-insightfully ready
whom I do not know.
away the disco music on the mountainside,
the table is a low bench. There’s so
eyes covered with white film –
“I love thee true.” She took me to her elfin grot,
Only: return to himself he cannot.
The Great Nought it’s remained
the wan bit lear he selt us:
of his eyes that enlarge the business.
I am about to drink. Back home
my groundless great adventure you know this already because it’s simple
to make eye contact, the more her nails
no visibility –
are inaccessible and secret rays
“We too are always the same,” answers
And go on my way
from the spectrum of happiness to suffering.
for the spreading of her locks
Tomorrow is the day of the songs
Like a rusty spear a scream
on loops low curtains, neighbours
The following scan will last five minutes
a car stops and she steps inside.
I knelt and looked straight
The magic has been on the prowl for days
as – but she has changed.
I peeled a red apple and saw the pale
She’s here only for this Sunday
The plinth is empty, too. I glimpse a show
at God’s bare bum.
it’s me, father,
with your exes, your futures.
all those mornings ever the same
of each age. Breathe, breathe deeply with me.
to latch on to necessity.
Hear how feverishly they explain their imminent demise
an over-ripe berry, a plum plucked too late.
she is still looking at me
when the night still
It owns everything here
You look, leaning on your elbows, wide open, smiling, keep
with home-made lemonade in a garden smoothed flat
So I began to stroke
It must have been his first and last attempt.
fighting into the honey
came out extremely forced.
of being mistaken after ten, eleven correct forecasts.
the heights beckoned and climbing was
<pre>The ladder and the rope the straw the chilly smoothness
Do not let yourself be stripped hold on to all your prayers, capital cities
And so did you, hundred-year-old captain.
it lies a day
an apple: a grape:
Who? Who? Who? Who?
head falling to one side in that room with the wooden floor
ground level cries no cock, never again is empty like it is
play the harp there barefoot, and do not stroke
Where dazedly I’ve thought about my past:
She has no clue how fully she is mine
For she is actually reality itself.
it may be that these surroundings have
there’s no need for me to say it. You know this already.
from far too close now
another uterine darkness. What did they need
Since you’ve spoken and thrown my words back at me
Dad doesn’t swear but rises beaming from his deck chair,
as they are from long flights).
Which Ugliness spawned on this shore
Hand and hip bear their full weight and how
too old and too ill, I cannot do this.
see how my father sets out on the water in a small boat
filled with a grey mass
mortal and futile. My mouth is bleeding.
yes, to the measure of these rooms.
leave me alone, don’t throw sand in
The bird’s real name is Bubo bubo, which experts say
1 Break-neck speed
across the bridge of words that knows no other side
still early with grey sky beyond bare branches
There was a report
we must first put our differences aside
paws extended, ears open wide.
boundlessness to come
the egg gets laid
like a velvet drill in heavenly matter.
that connects parks to trees,
that’s where you had to be
and a bottle of wine from Portugal
"<p align=""center"">Here no Natureingang."
because you know something
No love of home preoccupied my mind,
Between the blue coast in
casting local Nazis.
and leaving's not easy -
It just needed finding, that was all.
Spring's dawn has come
through the grabbling, the falling, the tender, the nauseous
the trees don’t know their own names either.
The dry-cleaned piece of paper in your coat pocket.
On the pushed-together tables
your hands like lotus petals
is an underrated form of love.
the true lover admits no difference
our eyes are popping out of our heads, we see dozens, hundreds of fingertips
as if she may listen to the coming of age
unsharing of thoughts
and you did not break or tear me apart
I am living amongst forgeries. Perhaps I am the only one naked,
between your hands
The water stretched far beyond the Ring,
In the scourge of those sun-signs where I belong.
Brulez, Gijsen, Snoek, Kemp, and Westerlinck, and now Walschap
He says: this next poem
by sheer prostration – or no, by
I can’t choose. My friends won’t help me and my enemy
of the promised land. At 12 o’clock the light
but also the longest and sharpest thorns,
A kiss from the third caused sore hurt
as deep below as heaven is high,
in brushfires by the forest’s edge
effortlessly, the magnet under the table breathes
Now you’re a safety net nobody
that all it represents
Or by the thunder of the clouds
How long by now, our story grows still
fresh mown just wet
empty oven with the fragrance of a
it will be lost by still before it.
only all that unsayable the lice the whores and how
Eleven men hanging beside their bodies.
die Jungfrau von Orleans
the purple whelk swells
Just as well, too.
the performance of a laisser-faire upbringing
That is the promised glade
Everything was already there.
came in through one mouth
See by the water a trace of the poet
out of your stomach. I shrug my shoulders, stir up the fire.
The nation state has been disarticulated
but how faint, how faint,
She’s got one week left.
I gave my all right from the start,
your own soul flying. Dearest
Few dare to raise their voice against the heavens,
will lie after your last breath in a pile exactly
something that’s difficult
with a caress. Downy almost.
bull eyes leer deadly in every man.
Because they’re running wild
Luis is short for Luis Manuel.
I have been marked, been hit, been eaten
going down, hanging off twigs
against the moon
this particular article we don’t understand.
Of men who keep their love hot and moist
then it's even more expensive
that night my father came home in a coat smelling of fire
such as the fox the dogs, the deer the hunt, man his peers.
fails to taste the letters.
also bear your body differently, out above the crowd or somewhere in between? Does it
I am the most vulnerable being on earth.
I knew: it seems I’m going to go ahead.
In the former royal garden
my heart, the shaky stronghold at the ravine you are
and steal the honey from your heart.
Sometimes we mimic migrating birds
but we live in a world
and will not close, handwriting’s run
And touched thy tender stem
citizens from without canalside dwellers
Other forefathers were at a loss what to do with death
Accept for once that wonderworking exists
soon we would be asleep. But we didn’t sleep,
Our croon to our restlessness Chorus We sense your heartbeat upon verdant fields
you tantalisingly slip away from me:
He writes in dots, in stains.
Something soft in the air is singing
So we convey him on great wheels to
I landed on a lily and entered the calyx
that causes this.
and I pat its mane
Summer’s evening is on the fields
A dog with iron eyes had clamped my hand
as children, on long summer evenings
- So, what do we see?
We lay down our arms
look out over the scaly skin of roofs
ourselves. Climbed up the mountain next morning
I listen: a beating heart
Those who find a hole are blown back
Please hang on perhaps
rightly so, but well
Someone had to look at it and say: what is it
I have to
For the fact that his eggshell is intact and able to bear happiness.
like a bed you have to
Looked the way curtains look
for the moon of Manakoora.’
as hearing and seeing pass away and nothing is left
softly tickling my ears from above,
And thirty-seven bus tickets
with no nose
and saw, an empty
but the jerk of your shoulder, look at me, someone,
so that you can, through this future window, let your eyes slide
You piss in the resources pot, misled
you are that bird.
the bride-to-be repeating her ‘I do’ while in the toilet.
at the sight of breasts, the rudiments
in the surf. The song in the guitar of
dolphin in our bay waves her tail at me – with the V
and all that’s all holy.
You hear water hissing in their pipes
No, I can sense a green-gold beetle
Of course the moon, madam
When Flora dances
smell of soap, tell me how
but all of them look deep back into time
into this water troubles me
here's where I sighed for the open polder and fell against
That the bed is mine and that I’m going to come
is somehow a precondition for
He who draws demarcates a silence, charms time,
by the light of impotent offices
But... what did you say your age was, twenty?
The world around him is perfectly clear, everything has been observed.
a veiled kiss eat?
she was the only thing missing, he let slip
where you can find me.
Where hands are not enough. Thinking. Watering the trees.
don’t be insistent,
the water itself and I’m still wondering how you
to chop down a tree
there’s no law that can last for long?
against each other, away from each other,
what I saw or thought
bugle and bassoon — 0 hop!
white beard and almost naked except for one thing:
(a drop from a
Twenty storeys plunge. Full length.
the dust jacket
as the adventure will show.
One got up late, summer hangs heavily
by the same invisible madman.
by assuming that everyone can
Parks too wet, hotels too full, Paris too far.
My human nature makes itself unpunished
this sentence is
I brace myself against the railings,
from the body’s gravitation.
the city where he walks from
takes him by the throat, doesn’t let go.
say how long
ebb will drink flow
A young woman gave me two for sampling in my hand
and the tone is right
If you’re quick you’ll do well
Again he pulls up a whole day
Now nothing said and a page blank
but that I only craved:
An x-ray of the sun.
The shrinking of the cloth &amp of the seam
even where the thousand images
everyone keeps their lips
chin pushed forward
haunting streets – some of us preferring our
All those sketches he left behind –
This is how we have existed,
into the rain and the village. Waiting grass
on his claw.
innumerable, floating gently in the gloaming.
and the sun is as always ahead.
a fan over her head a door swings out of the dark
more flies than the other? Presently
Not sentimental about her dog,
"“So. Go back to your pony cart."""
deep-dug black sea caves
I’m once more blinded by that figure’s gaze.
Hail thee, beauty,
I know more than some but less than others think.
of the waiting car. Not ten minutes later
he was not piqued by my questions.
tree branches crossed panes outside,
Go on and help another
the shiver-script of pinsharp twigs.
– All Souls’ Day takes more –
to catch itself in the act.
it absorbs into itself everything we thought
How the man with the hat reinscribes it
it all seemed like tombs for the dead.
as beauty, restlessness and sleep.
discovering where true love rests.
No bleeding saint
Ye traivel owre the glessy watter
Where is the pig?
I kept them in the suitcases.
the tiles the joints weary of
from a polish tin. And with the courage
up on high, up on high
apricot, I my apricot,
with searching,  co-ordinates point him to his invisible
Paavo, the raftsman, from Lappeenranta,
‘He did good very ill,
and cows sped up their growth. And the man saw that it was good.
Never will those cruel strangers know
My word shall become, my word shall be:
of the night before
reality is so far away
worse and much more dead.
But the language that I am does not allow me
because you listened to it,
for her son, whom she thought was dead
He wanted to keep a child
a car overturns the poem slits a throat) and
Put lipstick on or leave it off.
I in Ithaca with holes in my skin,
Young woman with a gold headscarf
Death is slave
fissures lifting in the paths of breath
the stranger is still to come.
with wild gaudy heart
I raised my spear, took a step forwards and froze.
that’s come to a standstill
that will breathe in relief
and there is a path
the song of a bird killed in her teeth.)
at the bottom. I can hear neither ambulances, nor rolling curtains,
That becomes free fall when
But if I could, I’d brave both sands and deeps,
and I’m alone with a mirage
forms half an orange which presses heavily upon your knee, back and forth
with searching, co-ordinates point him to his invisible
a different status, but nevertheless
you, but it’s not to be,
outline of every single petal
are the same.
weighs in me
in the city where he lives
glory, although surroundings never fit.
Loving became preservation, the moving of words
sea view, beach catch, somersaulting seagulls hangs
there must have begun something
can play every day undisturbed.
perhaps do you want trailing lane trailing lane, yes, spit it out.
of teased-out twine and lead,
while your father holds you by the hand
addresses of promise, I took with me a song
can’t be fancied, no notion, all’s
sincerely hold on to me
Death is hard
a kind of connectedness, houses,
a path weaves through the desert
head in neck eyes shut we sway up and down
now a tram is slowly passing over
No breath of wind. And yet a man held a woman
leaves me awe-struck.
For a short time I emitted light
My authoritative style, my shielding sacred scriptures,
indignation brought us closer together
time was never
and the cold from the floor kissed olga’s flat shoes
are folded under its body, nose to its tail. Look
and in love overflowing,
Death is choke
– but rather take
salty hair up on top of her head,
alters what I want to remember
an endlessly beautiful summer arrived.
if someone asked a name, you’d tell them lies,
Do what your Father says,
whom statistics speak of, who are in the frame.
your breast, as Englishly as possible. And indeed
There were old folks.
to avoid the cold weather
Now isn’t the right time to talk
have one of.
tree sweepingly ablaze in the window
Who peer and pant through every chink?
and that makes their backbones bend
a column on page two of the paper,
Walls begin to dry out
There was this that, seen from all angles, Lady Chatterley’s Lover can offer personal experience certain didactic pleasures.
H is for homely:
There’s no wind, it is the sandy ground itself
Of their smallness, and I helped them to sigh. Many times have I teased the great rocks
but still points only to France.
I am the last gift of the living to the dead
with the stars’ wheedling cry.
I could go and sit in my car for a moment.
That every month wild partying’s arranged.
disturbs the pattern with the precision of despair.
Or on his back.
a whole day
in the eternal weeds waiting for time
your hamster, hand-hot.
after a while. Sometimes
Parroted me. Adored. Left me kaputt.
or on condition. In a tub as long as a galleon
like we hadn’t closed the door a long time before.
Honey kissed hunt, stouthearted hart
The days in which you were dead were trifling and long
While my beloved, sleeping
Water has a blue tail
to where I sat, to
togetherness. I think, togetherness.
your love rejoices that you motionless. Extremely
in evolutionary terms that’s odd since
He has the angles of a bricklayer’s hand.
to transform into who we are.
the polo neck must come off,
or collect nightmares about
pre-emptive anaesthesia for the sense of touch
The white coral of your teeth to the coast, which silently
I have heard that less desire helps, but wouldn’t more desire save me from this,
And the border marked to a T
The barking of dogs
My skin turns white from it
that was the miracle, that it so wished to lose itself completely.
your mind’s a blank, and meanings symbolise
find out what true love can impart.
forget your paper on some weary station.
(Wherever I point my nose she smells
In the distance the last farms
that castle, panorama, fog, where was
Never is the shame naked enough
when she fell. Everything races on.
as the experienced will concede:
sharing not just
Last night I came across my parents,
By her supporters
It showed a Degas horse race
– The cauldron has been scoured where soggy swill once seethed,
It will be buried with me.
your hands and feet word
Those who look at me see themselves.
to close his lips. In the ship
home, where he bolted the door
neither root nor egg,
and the world has changed
Bellevue, Beauregard, Vauvenargues.
– I wished in vain – only looked like
in the drawer: crumbs paperclips
for mother a basket of rags that was dreaming
we appreciate the light, we never buy
knows this and can grasp this with her will
Of me, oh you, my chain-smoking shadow
is like a black plant
I think it’s a horse.
Lover and Loving are inseparable
and here I stand naked
the way he drove his Opel: quite composed,
and you, oh tree, and grass, and down,
in our bags with which to make a fist.
back. He growls. His paws pound your path.
are going to, but with playful ease we are going to
Of dumps so dull and heavy.
rain was falling everywhere outside
Got on with our miserable life.
too late and too soon,
– love’s warmth he knows,
waved at when you were little.
because I do not speak of love, you will bear greater blossoms,
no one dared touch the corpse for the first few days.
with its spring-tide of light,
sits at the table here: so whole and shiny, lilac
in that grey grass under that grey blossoming tree
on mario kart and marx
that day in the Gare du Nord
When I can escape my words no longer
Can you save ‘together’? Can you by doing much intensely as a couple
With black cherries she saw me.
hauled it would seem from primordial
The seeking has to go with you, there where
The old master snores next to me
alone when I left you
Who plot my downfall.
transmission box hiss
Fist pumping in the air I’m glad I’m sentimental
He balls up the shade-barred Eden printed
Concerning rights of lights
Like blunted houses with lighted panes,
agreements soon covered the world
heart’s content, that we might mumble
From a mountaintop
with the deployment of all my limited resources,
of fruit upon a branch, as if possessed
he yelled because sleep had deserted him
Beneath the ash, the issue smoldered, unsaid.
and around my ankles
I will draw in your eyes more clearly,
it worked as a monotonous brain.
having moved in the freezing eyeball. Even though
Those eyes and that small chin, those cheekbones!
of a body or that I sometimes lisp so badly no one wants to understand me, it’s as if
why I repeat myself
hiding behind the plants by the path, your hair
we put a coat on top of a coat in the temple shell
and the third lied we do
ignore the stiffness
two beds stand between a wall
I leave you across a ditch run dry
I read life after life
by low meadows
My dreams my eleven little darlings dance and sing:
softly whimpering –
us in a world of agreements
are not the things that I have done,
I would as gladly be dead as living
began to leak. Afraid, I longed
were an invitation to take a walk
“About love . . . ? Ridiculous . . . !”
true to his philosophical measuring rule,
the bumblebee corkscrews its way through the wood
As if they just consist of remnants:
a celebration of loss
he stroked the shrubs,
His gestures were for me,
us, make a body map.
sleeping beneath a blue mantle in a cold night.
Where is the crossroads I have to pass?
deep deeper ape
you may almost hear the beating of his wings.
they go up in dust like ash in a stove in the morning,
without diminishing its motion
everything’s waiting for the man
In September her daughter scrubs the grave though no one
in many a country marriage
we flow down asleep on our way,
Darning Needle’s mother had to give birth one day, a hefty story.
“Theo” (with a lifelong “O” at the end)
To announce the coming of light
oh yes, I’ve been told it, told it
Removes us from ourselves so that we
I saw how he had lost his whole department
(an end) of sticking it to the wall like a ring
reopened for the sweet high of the blood group, the home run,
After, we were tired beyond compare
Dark, night
even the reader somewhere in my head
they are undead and hungry but ultimately
seethes and breathes. You haven’t gone, quite the reverse,
in a neat sailor’s knot, to the fingers that have weighed
I had no idea what was going on, anyway everyone
hunger denies a word that means nothing
Like the back of a hunchback
How the hole between his eyes
to foundation, to dust, to memories rapidly tarnished.
and might not yet be erased –
shadows lightly. The palings round his collar
And I stand in the grass and learn for the first time
the point sharpens you.
heezed up its lugs wi a braw flingie
Let Scriabin ejaculate
Squadrons of poems are searching for their poets.
out there your wife is mine
He sat there sprawling and he made
as pollen, milk of roses, worms
Daddy don't leave, make home home,
the knuckles of that small bent spine which almost sags headfirst and
The open door of the last sad-eyed house
Don’t lie to me about dying
It only blooms in December, when blossoms come from heaven,
closed both eyes.
With a ceremonial dictator
if the cat doesn’t want to come or go,
for the food
and the E 17 was the air a white aircraft line.
and ask what next
Can you see the chimney-pots on the roofs, at night?
Death is white
Could I see it from the mountains
‘Nought are the stars, nought is the moon
untranslatable are these days
Without you Our perceptions limited
a rotten rose. Oh beautiful, pleasant life,
How everything I still had left to say
‘If I don’t go out weaving, there’ll be crow to eat.’
the rustling, but the rustling
if I’m a stranger once again
actually go left… Damn it, where am I? The woman in late sunlight then?
To hear the child call.
not in any demarcated space,
Oh ace of clubs arsewipe
I am the daughter of the elements
now in a daze my prof
Whenever thou dost rise or bend:
could suddenly, just like that,
a roof, shored up against confusion,
a parrot without feathers,
As I may not be there again, in that place
err . . .
the regret you fell in love with.
with here and there
blue-veined, after which with shoulders
gather fluttering, scratching, and with great
don’t scatter me here on the prescribed
is about living together for the first time.
The man in the suit spreads his arms,
Not sentimental about her wounds
things get quiet in this house.
you never said anything, he says it, &amp you look at me.
in that man, that woman, that child
remains of civilisation. And the more you turn
and the earth fades and pines
not for his passing but his dying
thus one always waits for something, to see if someone comes.
It’s not until we arrange our bed
that’s placed his head on a crate,
in the freezing water,
the weight of a bag
Your shape became more and more visible.
the sky grey or blue and multicoloured clouds: such is the world
before they were made.
If it is cold, we see ghosts.
and when Athena returns
honey-mouth closes her eyes
Like some great bellows regularly fed.
And the past from many pious women.
We have shaken the bells.
waiting to congeal
eyes and pray that misery
Music, the splash of oars.
I smiled on all it had in store.
the greener the twilight
If I could be sure of a letter in each.
Brushes keep still in a hot silence,
harden in the night into envelopes for
And decorate our nest anew.
we slept curled with our backs to each other, clouds of thyme in which
crumbled more into the sea.
In hindsight a pity, phrase with rebus. The dream that almost, now
my mother took me
There is a box for things she wants to pass
when you yelled them forward,
by receipt of repayment of dividend
than this, on whose fringes the heart –
Her pony mourns and dances to the thunder. Silverplate green.
and returns in the evening. On Sunday
fails to tumble in: the phlox that are no roses,
no hands-free unhoisting
when I experience it I am speechless
into the painting.
as I roared the first lines of the national anthem.
till one lets go of the hand and gets used to forces again
you can roughly see
I am the dwarf of average height.
Go now and stagger to her
away the frost, thumbing through
It is now five interminable years ago.
She stood still, her sunken eyes seeing him drinking in
my footsteps went.
Like a woman without a mouth.)
the state in your purchases you buy a
the people rush onto the tram when it comes at last
science laugh it off
but am safe nowhere, my conscience has become something
Your feet have squashed my grapes, your hands
being a statement, your message had
my pencil comes from a sick tree.
this jacket fits me
that I ever asked of you,
I am a thousand winds that blow.
From the series ‘Matter for Deciphering’
I’m here. Sleep is the silent ticking of a clock,
A white-winged gust of wind
the sky was grey
(the man who always brought her chocolate
comes and revives my poor languishing dear.
Groping for the wet innards
that one day we will give milk and honey
have not offset the fact that I then,
roar and resign.
makes circles in the pool of silence.
that gave rise to me!
Appeasing hunger with ditties, tell him
as you set out the traps
We did everything in reverse order:
to fire at a man who clutches
through the streets in the city
Dance all dance the home cancan
But still we hear them, the stinking
In his hair mist droops, healer’s-fatigued.
security guards become gladiolus growers,
Carved bones, painted shards
the people smoke the people drink something distilled
a trail of cough sweets led us to a bucket containing remnants of plaster of paris.
over its mouth
And if thou wilt, remember,
something you feel or something you’d
It's written in our hearts, it's written in the stars,
Take this flesh
calmly purls the curls out,
Not the rights, the history,
suffer my stranglehold, suffer
who has a name to bear must cue-cue
Moon before sun
sheets. You push the door open and wait.
collapse under nothing more than the weight
It is customary to lean back in the evening
I forget the riddles, the plaintive names I gave her.
harvesting air and insects
its swelling and its hasty shrinking,
wood also looked. I was not even scared,
held its tongue. A dancing foaming
indoor greenery upstairs
and temporarily receded
In this cleverly contrived pre-programmed séance
What was going to happen was already here,
and life is so merciless
Time – it is strange – it is strangely beautiful too
You wear your hair in a fine plait
the desert like bedouins
Just the way we own the words
of playing through not letting up,
the dark stumbled on words and began on a story
the shining horizon.
floral curtains or small porcelain
she wants to be in touch you’ll guess
Today? Whose head would that be?
I know that what is directionless is defenceless.
some breath still comes, the inedible silver
The car rolls out of the garage.
The gates have been torn down.
I call out that his speed is seven and a half knots per hour
your aunt fell again, pulled up again
both of my hands my flushed face you bring up the fresh water
with molten creatures
until the itch has gone
your hand and you squeeze hers then when you feel me
if we can only preserve ourselves in the now
Somewhere she can hear me still, she thinks.
Between index and ring finger I swear.’
when I woke in the morning and saw it.
Blood flows across the floor through the corridor down the stairs
I caught my death of light
or embrace the murmur of creation
Last night in a dream
Lay me down. Cut out my time,
after night – even though they are extinct
as though possessed.
Make it down the years, since her name shows me the way
a light growing bluer hung
which repels everything
I listen to my body
even now above the chasms
shards marked with the prints of thumbs,
there. And what is more, beloved,
impassive, but without
rhyme only with moment and season not with sea
that while making love she’ll reach
That some people begin to resemble their pets
Why, body, did I never extol you?
By the voice of Nature
than a vague approximation of what we want to be.
that you don’t know and even now
into someone’s eyes with just as many fractions of expression. Ask finally
It’s up to the stars tonight
The waiting eyes look moist,
The first one’s hut? Cupboard in a wall
stick. A few yards away, two tall trees
stands waiting for dawn. Earth generates mist
Why would the hand long for a vase,
or sweet delight, a vessel
and movable (the bridge)
heavily our blessčd mummy who purl and plain
when or how soon what time
scissors and I became a soldier but
Take a rest and begin again.
children the strength to find love not within themselves, but to find it in another:
or too near. Your inapproachability
the automobile strains its wheel
reprimands a wasp one finger in the air
turned red from all my fervour and my hands are red like my
No I lie. I’m on my own. I count how many
but had to wave his fists
Because a dream beheld at me I am here today.
Reflecting outside to make the reflection
Rémi says, ‘Get dressed and make my wife a compliment.
‘Avanti. From lava to spumanti.
Thanks to the threesome craved for such a feat,
The amniotic fluid is full of plastic. Scientists
It was raining sunlight
alone this ye
the seed of the day was scattered
The real news of the day is not what you imagine.
she of all seasons but above all of winter
or silently write each tongue in a notebook.
Who will wash their sky-blue overalls?
Where is the Dutchman going?
with stubborn pride that makes the horses steam,
a little shell in the sandy
whiteness of office buildings.
is more vivid and full than that of the windless
a kind of bravura. Though he was always terribly
a wall of caustic water. Here's where it was,
The head that they have lost.
a man without shoes
a maddened hammer
something on top.
The journey narrated a man walked over the mountain
dances the tent his heavenly father spanned him.
of many colours on
Where is the spy?
that has knotted round my neck. With the blood mill as
Also, at the entrance
Your tongue licks your dry lips
with a double-barreled shotgun, a smoke house full of wood.
it’s called defence
we lost tracks, walls
Death is shine
more pure, no happiness
posthumously onto paper.
scarcely and nowhere.
but my fear that it isn’t a flock at all
as he walks through the streets
These last days I live bent over, before all that,
just as you shouldn’t touch
Hastening from far journey
Parted by death,
To end in wondrous visions and dreams
The drumroll of the rhythm &amp the roof
They’re read and read repeatedly,
easily from her shoulders
wallpaper hanging, rehashing
that said, as even the last word night had been
Of those who crazily
Each day my life was crossed
and the street will lie paved with spouses.”
and if we’d been portable (handle at the top) imagine
getting grazed by the rough bark of oaks
on naught but this great star, which scorches them. </pre>
every hair framing your face
for a night that serves the day
About four times a week and
The water’s blackish gleam. And there I spot
You pile up the plates, brush the crumbs off an fill up my glass.
keep the dead birds at a distance
enough to fill the sky they rose transparently.
And captive good attending captain ill:
past bush and sheep. the end of neutral art.
to look as if
in the ever-moving water.
Would make it a place of fearful gloom.   I could not rest if I heard the tread
for boys, you thought.
You will heal. This will fade.
all that anger, it is energy, that you didn’t know
someone who reads and is young,
Between portraits of emperors
and the pidgin of another new age
a duck that slid across the lake and sipped at the water
— when the boats of their senses' beat
If there’s any fig brandy around, we drink it,
Chubby aunts canna cough tool
eyes two years young. ‘He was by our hedge, you understand.’
So I cry, I cry for us. I’m Lilith.”
— you suddenly hear water
been googling every freckle. Just recently
You count the boards of the floor
have nothing to do with the state of your teeth.
the apricot of her ear at your mouth.
the terror of their own tremendous greed
in draught hang dancing our hero
There once lived a floor lamp
and wash your hair
That he was proud of his nursing daughter who had given birth
first, we will make your field our own,
light is already gleaming above the bushes.
His hand still warm from sleep.
the buses were off schedule by levendaal
Woman sings naff songs and quotes posh philosophers
In a cheap hotel where the walls move along with you
is submission to oneself.
which must each day stretch out every reflection. The writer in you makes people sick, everything
keep a hand on the purse strings
Don’t you limp now, don’t be wimps now
It is something that happens in another country, in a big drought
Hand in hand, on the tide’s edge of memory
The poet is invisible.
the tablecloth with both hands and whipping it out
like a rat in a trap, yearn for the cesspool
the trains no longer ran
We create problems to deliver ourselves
are as distant vistas to me.
Look how windy it’s been
when I still saw in him the most perfect guide.
one still has to give the sons a pep talk, measure the daughters
slowness and of
Before a harmony is found
your handshake on a half-moon holiday
Ever awake, like a ticking clock,
to begin with
Nothing that wrings words from her fingers.
Death is cease
at the stove. A short, hand-sewn
He feeds me salmon as if it’s fish, breaks the
love you love you
in the long shadow
Quite senile. She cackled away.
and are all different cars
and on pressed linen tablecloths appear –
And greying like lavender in November
of the moon after rain and lick once more her toes,
name. We both know that I am
no refugee gets around her.
sacred plague of history,
We laid bricks, mixed mortar
Welcome to Grout, vagabond
song, don’t reconcile me to the night,
Still now, she more than the water in her curious body
When each moment unmoved, became the movement
four men in orange overalls
into a kind of freeze
O fatal laws of attraction. Would Melvin have
Fill up the bath and
“Don't leave,” I whispered
When we returned home after John’s funeral
No sacred mountain is unknown to me.
Only a breeze will sigh,
in the middle of the city.
And that brown is nice, too.
‘Yes, plenty,’ spoke the only one
Houses have windows (in frames) and
In the grim north walks a woman, so floored
a fan of sunny summer rays.
Walked towards the mirror
that it was dark, shameful. I ran to the dank
rather than share it
we flew as we went, carts to our knuckles,
the mould on the milk is half an inch thick.
for the world to end and though
to the crossbar of his bike. Every morning
It is always more expensive than you think,
this afternoon? Look
More precise. Deeper. The most in the finest
of a maple has fallen off
The memories of us
touches the ground in one piece.
give me warmth and Wi-Fi
from all that unremitting, indifferent firmness and kindness.
over flaking walls slides,
hands and thighs. Is it your daughter? I love her.
we saw the light from beyond the poplars where our mothers dangled
He was where I’d drift,
Has it feathers like a Bird?
“No, where it’s real.” Why nine years as a poem then, Lilith?
Don’t touch it.
She’s held safe in her frame, too chaste
the girls last, their obligations
and lie on ground is sufficient
has come for consumption. Uncertain moment:
in my breast, it leads me to confusion.
Poetry does not do much, but compared to what? Poetry does not make the dead rise, lie down again,
If only we hadn’t rushed headlong into things,
slowly rolling into an endless stare
like a heartbeat
so we learned of our hypermobility
there was something already in the beginning.
Too long to forget
of the day. Then start again from the beginning.
sunrise motionless at your back above the distant
